## 0.9.0 (November 14th, 2017)

DEPRECATIONS/CHANGES:

 * API HTTP client behavior: When calling `NewClient` the API no longer
   modifies the provided client/transport. In particular this means it will no
   longer enable redirection limiting and HTTP/2 support on custom clients. It
   is suggested that if you want to make changes to an HTTP client that you use
   one created by `DefaultConfig` as a starting point.
 * AWS EC2 client nonce behavior: The client nonce generated by the backend
   that gets returned along with the authentication response will be audited in
   plaintext. If this is undesired, the clients can choose to supply a custom
   nonce to the login endpoint. The custom nonce set by the client will from
   now on, not be returned back with the authentication response, and hence not
   audit logged.
 * AWS Auth role options: The API will now error when trying to create or
   update a role with the mutually-exclusive options
   `disallow_reauthentication` and `allow_instance_migration`.
 * SSH CA role read changes: When reading back a role from the `ssh` backend,
   the TTL/max TTL values will now be an integer number of seconds rather than
   a string. This better matches the API elsewhere in Vault.
 * SSH role list changes: When listing roles from the `ssh` backend via the API,
   the response data will additionally return a `key_info` map that will contain
   a map of each key with a corresponding object containing the `key_type`.
 * More granularity in audit logs: Audit request and response entires are still
   in RFC3339 format but now have a granularity of nanoseconds.

FEATURES:

 * **RSA Support for Transit Backend**: Transit backend can now generate RSA
   keys which can be used for encryption and signing. [GH-3489]
 * **Identity System**: Now in open source and with significant enhancements,
   Identity is an integrated system for understanding users across tokens and
   enabling easier management of users directly and via groups.
 * **External Groups in Identity**: Vault can now automatically assign users
   and systems to groups in Identity based on their membership in external
   groups.
 * **Seal Wrap / FIPS 140-2 Compatibility (Enterprise)**: Vault can now take
   advantage of FIPS 140-2-certified HSMs to ensure that Critical Security
   Parameters are protected in a compliant fashion. Vault's implementation has
   received a statement of compliance from Leidos.
 * **Control Groups (Enterprise)**: Require multiple members of an Identity
   group to authorize a requested action before it is allowed to run.
 * **Cloud Auto-Unseal (Enterprise)**: Automatically unseal Vault using AWS KMS
   and GCP CKMS.
 * **Sentinel Integration (Enterprise)**: Take advantage of HashiCorp Sentinel
   to create extremely flexible access control policies -- even on
   unauthenticated endpoints.
 * **Barrier Rekey Support for Auto-Unseal (Enterprise)**: When using auto-unsealing
   functionality, the `rekey` operation is now supported; it uses recovery keys
   to authorize the master key rekey.
 * **Operation Token for Disaster Recovery Actions (Enterprise)**: When using
   Disaster Recovery replication, a token can be created that can be used to
   authorize actions such as promotion and updating primary information, rather
   than using recovery keys.
 * **Trigger Auto-Unseal with Recovery Keys (Enterprise)**: When using
   auto-unsealing, a request to unseal Vault can be triggered by a threshold of
   recovery keys, rather than requiring the Vault process to be restarted.
 * **UI Redesign (Enterprise)**: All new experience for the Vault Enterprise
   UI. The look and feel has been completely redesigned to give users a better
   experience and make managing secrets fast and easy.
 * **UI: SSH Secret Backend (Enterprise)**: Configure an SSH secret backend,
   create and browse roles. And use them to sign keys or generate one time
   passwords.
 * **UI: AWS Secret Backend (Enterprise)**: You can now configure the AWS
   backend via the Vault Enterprise UI. In addition you can create roles,
   browse the roles and Generate IAM Credentials from them in the UI.

IMPROVEMENTS:

 * api: Add ability to set custom headers on each call [GH-3394]
 * command/server: Add config option to disable requesting client certificates
   [GH-3373]
 * core: Disallow mounting underneath an existing path, not just over [GH-2919]
 * physical/file: Use `700` as permissions when creating directories. The files
   themselves were `600` and are all encrypted, but this doesn't hurt.
 * secret/aws: Add ability to use custom IAM/STS endpoints [GH-3416]
 * secret/cassandra: Work around Cassandra ignoring consistency levels for a
   user listing query [GH-3469]
 * secret/pki: Private keys can now be marshalled as PKCS#8 [GH-3518]
 * secret/pki: Allow entering URLs for `pki` as both comma-separated strings and JSON
   arrays [GH-3409]
 * secret/ssh: Role TTL/max TTL can now be specified as either a string or an
   integer [GH-3507]
 * secret/transit: Sign and verify operations now support a `none` hash
   algorithm to allow signing/verifying pre-hashed data [GH-3448]
 * secret/database: Add the ability to glob allowed roles in the Database Backend [GH-3387]
 * ui (enterprise): Support for RSA keys in the transit backend
 * ui (enterprise): Support for DR Operation Token generation, promoting, and
   updating primary on DR Secondary clusters

BUG FIXES:

 * api: Fix panic when setting a custom HTTP client but with a nil transport
   [GH-3435] [GH-3437]
 * api: Fix authing to the `cert` backend when the CA for the client cert is
   not known to the server's listener [GH-2946]
 * auth/approle: Create role ID index during read if a role is missing one [GH-3561]
 * auth/aws: Don't allow mutually exclusive options [GH-3291]
 * auth/radius: Fix logging in in some situations [GH-3461]
 * core: Fix memleak when a connection would connect to the cluster port and
   then go away [GH-3513]
 * core: Fix panic if a single-use token is used to step-down or seal [GH-3497]
 * core: Set rather than add headers to prevent some duplicated headers in
   responses when requests were forwarded to the active node [GH-3485]
 * physical/etcd3: Fix some listing issues due to how etcd3 does prefix
   matching [GH-3406]
 * physical/etcd3: Fix case where standbys can lose their etcd client lease
   [GH-3031]
 * physical/file: Fix listing when underscores are the first component of a
   path [GH-3476]
 * plugins: Allow response errors to be returned from backend plugins [GH-3412]
 * secret/transit: Fix panic if the length of the input ciphertext was less
   than the expected nonce length [GH-3521]
 * ui (enterprise): Reinstate support for generic secret backends - this was
   erroneously removed in a previous release

## 0.8.3 (September 19th, 2017)

CHANGES:

 * Policy input/output standardization: For all built-in authentication
   backends, policies can now be specified as a comma-delimited string or an
   array if using JSON as API input; on read, policies will be returned as an
   array; and the `default` policy will not be forcefully added to policies
   saved in configurations. Please note that the `default` policy will continue
   to be added to generated tokens, however, rather than backends adding
   `default` to the given set of input policies (in some cases, and not in
   others), the stored set will reflect the user-specified set.
 * `sign-self-issued` modifies Issuer in generated certificates: In 0.8.2 the
   endpoint would not modify the Issuer in the generated certificate, leaving
   the output self-issued. Although theoretically valid, in practice crypto
   stacks were unhappy validating paths containing such certs. As a result,
   `sign-self-issued` now encodes the signing CA's Subject DN into the Issuer
   DN of the generated certificate.
 * `sys/raw` requires enabling: While the `sys/raw` endpoint can be extremely
   useful in break-glass or support scenarios, it is also extremely dangerous.
   As of now, a configuration file option `raw_storage_endpoint` must be set in
   order to enable this API endpoint. Once set, the available functionality has
   been enhanced slightly; it now supports listing and decrypting most of
   Vault's core data structures, except for the encryption keyring itself.
 * `generic` is now `kv`: To better reflect its actual use, the `generic`
   backend is now `kv`. Using `generic` will still work for backwards
   compatibility.

FEATURES:

 * **GCE Support for GCP Auth**: GCE instances can now authenticate to Vault
   using machine credentials.
 * **Support for Kubernetes Service Account Auth**: Kubernetes Service Accounts
   can now authenticate to vault using JWT tokens.

IMPROVEMENTS:

 * configuration: Provide a config option to store Vault server's process ID
   (PID) in a file [GH-3321]
 * mfa (Enterprise): Add the ability to use identity metadata in username format
 * mfa/okta (Enterprise): Add support for configuring base_url for API calls
 * secret/pki: `sign-intermediate` will now allow specifying a `ttl` value 
   longer than the signing CA certificate's NotAfter value. [GH-3325]
 * sys/raw: Raw storage access is now disabled by default [GH-3329]

BUG FIXES:

 * auth/okta: Fix regression that removed the ability to set base_url [GH-3313]
 * core: Fix panic while loading leases at startup on ARM processors 
   [GH-3314]
 * secret/pki: Fix `sign-self-issued` encoding the wrong subject public key
   [GH-3325]

## 0.8.2.1 (September 11th, 2017) (Enterprise Only)

BUG FIXES:

 * Fix an issue upgrading to 0.8.2 for Enterprise customers.

## 0.8.2 (September 5th, 2017)

SECURITY:

* In prior versions of Vault, if authenticating via AWS IAM and requesting a
  periodic token, the period was not properly respected. This could lead to
  tokens expiring unexpectedly, or a token lifetime being longer than expected.
  Upon token renewal with Vault 0.8.2 the period will be properly enforced.

DEPRECATIONS/CHANGES:

* `vault ssh` users should supply `-mode` and `-role` to reduce the number of
  API calls. A future version of Vault will mark these optional values are
  required. Failure to supply `-mode` or `-role` will result in a warning.
* Vault plugins will first briefly run a restricted version of the plugin to
  fetch metadata, and then lazy-load the plugin on first request to prevent
  crash/deadlock of Vault during the unseal process. Plugins will need to be
  built with the latest changes in order for them to run properly.

FEATURES:

* **Lazy Lease Loading**: On startup, Vault will now load leases from storage
  in a lazy fashion (token checks and revocation/renewal requests still force
  an immediate load). For larger installations this can significantly reduce
  downtime when switching active nodes or bringing Vault up from cold start.
* **SSH CA Login with `vault ssh`**: `vault ssh` now supports the SSH CA
  backend for authenticating to machines. It also supports remote host key
  verification through the SSH CA backend, if enabled.
* **Signing of Self-Issued Certs in PKI**: The `pki` backend now supports
  signing self-issued CA certs. This is useful when switching root CAs.

IMPROVEMENTS:

 * audit/file: Allow specifying `stdout` as the `file_path` to log to standard
   output [GH-3235]
 * auth/aws: Allow wildcards in `bound_iam_principal_arn` [GH-3213]
 * auth/okta: Compare groups case-insensitively since Okta is only
   case-preserving [GH-3240]
 * auth/okta: Standardize Okta configuration APIs across backends [GH-3245]
 * cli: Add subcommand autocompletion that can be enabled with 
   `vault -autocomplete-install` [GH-3223]
 * cli: Add ability to handle wrapped responses when using `vault auth`. What
   is output depends on the other given flags; see the help output for that
   command for more information. [GH-3263]
 * core: TLS cipher suites used for cluster behavior can now be set via
   `cluster_cipher_suites` in configuration [GH-3228]
 * core: The `plugin_name` can now either be specified directly as part of the
   parameter or within the `config` object when mounting a secret or auth backend
   via `sys/mounts/:path` or `sys/auth/:path` respectively [GH-3202]
 * core: It is now possible to update the `description` of a mount when
   mount-tuning, although this must be done through the HTTP layer [GH-3285]
 * secret/databases/mongo: If an EOF is encountered, attempt reconnecting and
   retrying the operation [GH-3269]
 * secret/pki: TTLs can now be specified as a string or an integer number of
   seconds [GH-3270]
 * secret/pki: Self-issued certs can now be signed via
   `pki/root/sign-self-issued` [GH-3274]
 * storage/gcp: Use application default credentials if they exist [GH-3248]

BUG FIXES:

 * auth/aws: Properly use role-set period values for IAM-derived token renewals
   [GH-3220]
 * auth/okta: Fix updating organization/ttl/max_ttl after initial setting
   [GH-3236]
 * core: Fix PROXY when underlying connection is TLS [GH-3195]
 * core: Policy-related commands would sometimes fail to act case-insensitively
   [GH-3210]
 * storage/consul: Fix parsing TLS configuration when using a bare IPv6 address
   [GH-3268]
 * plugins: Lazy-load plugins to prevent crash/deadlock during unseal process.
   [GH-3255]
 * plugins: Skip mounting plugin-based secret and credential mounts when setting
   up mounts if the plugin is no longer present in the catalog. [GH-3255]

## 0.8.1 (August 16th, 2017)

DEPRECATIONS/CHANGES:

 * PKI Root Generation: Calling `pki/root/generate` when a CA cert/key already
   exists will now return a `204` instead of overwriting an existing root. If
   you want to recreate the root, first run a delete operation on `pki/root`
   (requires `sudo` capability), then generate it again.

FEATURES:

 * **Oracle Secret Backend**: There is now an external plugin to support leased
   credentials for Oracle databases (distributed separately).
 * **GCP IAM Auth Backend**: There is now an authentication backend that allows
   using GCP IAM credentials to retrieve Vault tokens. This is available as
   both a plugin and built-in to Vault.
 * **PingID Push Support for Path-Baased MFA (Enterprise)**: PingID Push can
   now be used for MFA with the new path-based MFA introduced in Vault
   Enterprise 0.8.
 * **Permitted DNS Domains Support in PKI**: The `pki` backend now supports
   specifying permitted DNS domains for CA certificates, allowing you to
   narrowly scope the set of domains for which a CA can issue or sign child
   certificates.
 * **Plugin Backend Reload Endpoint**: Plugin backends can now be triggered to
   reload using the `sys/plugins/reload/backend` endpoint and providing either
   the plugin name or the mounts to reload.
 * **Self-Reloading Plugins**: The plugin system will now attempt to reload a
   crashed or stopped plugin, once per request.

IMPROVEMENTS:

 * auth/approle: Allow array input for policies in addition to comma-delimited
   strings [GH-3163]
 * plugins: Send logs through Vault's logger rather than stdout [GH-3142]
 * secret/pki: Add `pki/root` delete operation [GH-3165]
 * secret/pki: Don't overwrite an existing root cert/key when calling generate
   [GH-3165]

BUG FIXES:

 * aws: Don't prefer a nil HTTP client over an existing one [GH-3159]
 * core: If there is an error when checking for create/update existence, return
   500 instead of 400 [GH-3162]
 * secret/database: Avoid creating usernames that are too long for legacy MySQL
   [GH-3138]

## 0.8.0 (August 9th, 2017)

SECURITY:

 * We've added a note to the docs about the way the GitHub auth backend works
   as it may not be readily apparent that GitHub personal access tokens, which
   are used by the backend, can be used for unauthorized access if they are
   stolen from third party services and access to Vault is public.

DEPRECATIONS/CHANGES:

 * Database Plugin Backends: Passwords generated for these backends now
   enforce stricter password requirements, as opposed to the previous behavior
   of returning a randomized UUID. Passwords are of length 20, and have a `A1a-`
   characters prepended to ensure stricter requirements. No regressions are
   expected from this change. (For database backends that were previously
   substituting underscores for hyphens in passwords, this will remain the
   case.)
 * Lease Endpoints: The endpoints `sys/renew`, `sys/revoke`, `sys/revoke-prefix`,
   `sys/revoke-force` have been deprecated and relocated under `sys/leases`.
   Additionally, the deprecated path `sys/revoke-force` now requires the `sudo`
   capability.
 * Response Wrapping Lookup Unauthenticated: The `sys/wrapping/lookup` endpoint
   is now unauthenticated. This allows introspection of the wrapping info by
   clients that only have the wrapping token without then invalidating the
   token. Validation functions/checks are still performed on the token.

FEATURES:

 * **Cassandra Storage**: Cassandra can now be used for Vault storage
 * **CockroachDB Storage**: CockroachDB can now be used for Vault storage
 * **CouchDB Storage**: CouchDB can now be used for Vault storage
 * **SAP HANA Database Plugin**: The `databases` backend can now manage users
   for SAP HANA databases
 * **Plugin Backends**: Vault now supports running secret and auth backends as
   plugins. Plugins can be mounted like normal backends and can be developed
   independently from Vault.
 * **PROXY Protocol Support** Vault listeners can now be configured to honor
   PROXY protocol v1 information to allow passing real client IPs into Vault. A
   list of authorized addresses (IPs or subnets) can be defined and
   accept/reject behavior controlled.
 * **Lease Lookup and Browsing in the Vault Enterprise UI**: Vault Enterprise UI
   now supports lookup and listing of leases and the associated actions from the
   `sys/leases` endpoints in the API. These are located in the new top level
   navigation item "Leases".
 * **Filtered Mounts for Performance Mode Replication**: Whitelists or
   blacklists of mounts can be defined per-secondary to control which mounts
   are actually replicated to that secondary. This can allow targeted
   replication of specific sets of data to specific geolocations/datacenters.
 * **Disaster Recovery Mode Replication (Enterprise Only)**: There is a new
   replication mode, Disaster Recovery (DR), that performs full real-time
   replication (including tokens and leases) to DR secondaries. DR secondaries
   cannot handle client requests, but can be promoted to primary as needed for
   failover.
 * **Manage New Replication Features in the Vault Enterprise UI**: Support for
   Replication features in Vault Enterprise UI has expanded to include new DR
   Replication mode and management of Filtered Mounts in Performance Replication
   mode.
 * **Vault Identity (Enterprise Only)**: Vault's new Identity system allows
   correlation of users across tokens. At present this is only used for MFA,
   but will be the foundation of many other features going forward.
 * **Duo Push, Okta Push, and TOTP MFA For All Authenticated Paths (Enterprise
   Only)**: A brand new MFA system built on top of Identity allows MFA
   (currently Duo Push, Okta Push, and TOTP) for any authenticated path within
   Vault. MFA methods can be configured centrally, and TOTP keys live within
   the user's Identity information to allow using the same key across tokens.
   Specific MFA method(s) required for any given path within Vault can be
   specified in normal ACL path statements.

IMPROVEMENTS:

 * api: Add client method for a secret renewer background process [GH-2886]
 * api: Add `RenewTokenAsSelf` [GH-2886]
 * api: Client timeout can now be adjusted with the `VAULT_CLIENT_TIMEOUT` env
   var or with a new API function [GH-2956]
 * api/cli: Client will now attempt to look up SRV records for the given Vault
   hostname [GH-3035]
 * audit/socket: Enhance reconnection logic and don't require the connection to
   be established at unseal time [GH-2934]
 * audit/file: Opportunistically try re-opening the file on error [GH-2999]
 * auth/approle: Add role name to token metadata [GH-2985]
 * auth/okta: Allow specifying `ttl`/`max_ttl` inside the mount [GH-2915]
 * cli: Client timeout can now be adjusted with the `VAULT_CLIENT_TIMEOUT` env
   var [GH-2956]
 * command/auth: Add `-token-only` flag to `vault auth` that returns only the
   token on stdout and does not store it via the token helper [GH-2855]
 * core: CORS allowed origins can now be configured [GH-2021]
 * core: Add metrics counters for audit log failures [GH-2863]
 * cors: Allow setting allowed headers via the API instead of always using
   wildcard [GH-3023]
 * secret/ssh: Allow specifying the key ID format using template values for CA
   type [GH-2888]
 * server: Add `tls_client_ca_file` option for specifying a CA file to use for
   client certificate verification when `tls_require_and_verify_client_cert` is
   enabled [GH-3034]
 * storage/cockroachdb: Add CockroachDB storage backend [GH-2713]
 * storage/couchdb: Add CouchhDB storage backend [GH-2880]
 * storage/mssql: Add `max_parallel` [GH-3026]
 * storage/postgresql: Add `max_parallel` [GH-3026]
 * storage/postgresql: Improve listing speed [GH-2945]
 * storage/s3: More efficient paging when an object has a lot of subobjects
   [GH-2780]
 * sys/wrapping: Make `sys/wrapping/lookup` unauthenticated [GH-3084]
 * sys/wrapping: Wrapped tokens now store the original request path of the data
   [GH-3100]
 * telemetry: Add support for DogStatsD [GH-2490]

BUG FIXES:

 * api/health: Don't treat standby `429` codes as an error [GH-2850]
 * api/leases: Fix lease lookup returning lease properties at the top level
 * audit: Fix panic when audit logging a read operation on an asymmetric
   `transit` key [GH-2958]
 * auth/approle: Fix panic when secret and cidr list not provided in role
   [GH-3075]
 * auth/aws: Look up proper account ID on token renew [GH-3012]
 * auth/aws: Store IAM header in all cases when it changes [GH-3004]
 * auth/ldap: Verify given certificate is PEM encoded instead of failing
   silently [GH-3016]
 * auth/token: Don't allow using the same token ID twice when manually
   specifying [GH-2916]
 * cli: Fix issue with parsing keys that start with special characters [GH-2998]
 * core: Relocated `sys/leases/renew` returns same payload as original
   `sys/leases` endpoint [GH-2891]
 * secret/ssh: Fix panic when signing with incorrect key type [GH-3072]
 * secret/totp: Ensure codes can only be used once. This makes some automated
   workflows harder but complies with the RFC. [GH-2908]
 * secret/transit: Fix locking when creating a key with unsupported options
   [GH-2974]

## 0.7.3 (June 7th, 2017)

SECURITY:

 * Cert auth backend now checks validity of individual certificates: In
   previous versions of Vault, validity (e.g. expiration) of individual leaf
   certificates added for authentication was not checked. This was done to make
   it easier for administrators to control lifecycles of individual
   certificates added to the backend, e.g. the authentication material being
   checked was access to that specific certificate's private key rather than
   all private keys signed by a CA. However, this behavior is often unexpected
   and as a result can lead to insecure deployments, so we are now validating
   these certificates as well.
 * App-ID path salting was skipped in 0.7.1/0.7.2: A regression in 0.7.1/0.7.2
   caused the HMACing of any App-ID information stored in paths (including
   actual app-IDs and user-IDs) to be unsalted and written as-is from the API.
   In 0.7.3 any such paths will be automatically changed to salted versions on
   access (e.g. login or read); however, if you created new app-IDs or user-IDs
   in 0.7.1/0.7.2, you may want to consider whether any users with access to
   Vault's underlying data store may have intercepted these values, and
   revoke/roll them.

DEPRECATIONS/CHANGES:

 * Step-Down is Forwarded: When a step-down is issued against a non-active node
   in an HA cluster, it will now forward the request to the active node.

FEATURES:

 * **ed25519 Signing/Verification in Transit with Key Derivation**: The
   `transit` backend now supports generating
   [ed25519](https://ed25519.cr.yp.to/) keys for signing and verification
   functionality. These keys support derivation, allowing you to modify the
   actual encryption key used by supplying a `context` value.
 * **Key Version Specification for Encryption in Transit**: You can now specify
   the version of a key you use to wish to generate a signature, ciphertext, or
   HMAC. This can be controlled by the `min_encryption_version` key
   configuration property.
 * **Replication Primary Discovery (Enterprise)**: Replication primaries will
   now advertise the addresses of their local HA cluster members to replication
   secondaries. This helps recovery if the primary active node goes down and
   neither service discovery nor load balancers are in use to steer clients.

IMPROVEMENTS:

 * api/health: Add Sys().Health() [GH-2805]
 * audit: Add auth information to requests that error out [GH-2754]
 * command/auth: Add `-no-store` option that prevents the auth command from
   storing the returned token into the configured token helper [GH-2809]
 * core/forwarding: Request forwarding now heartbeats to prevent unused
   connections from being terminated by firewalls or proxies
 * plugins/databases: Add MongoDB as an internal database plugin [GH-2698]
 * storage/dynamodb: Add a method for checking the existence of children,
   speeding up deletion operations in the DynamoDB storage backend [GH-2722]
 * storage/mysql: Add max_parallel parameter to MySQL backend [GH-2760]
 * secret/databases: Support listing connections [GH-2823]
 * secret/databases: Support custom renewal statements in Postgres database
   plugin [GH-2788]
 * secret/databases: Use the role name as part of generated credentials
   [GH-2812]
 * ui (Enterprise): Transit key and secret browsing UI handle large lists better
 * ui (Enterprise): root tokens are no longer persisted
 * ui (Enterprise): support for mounting Database and TOTP secret backends

BUG FIXES:

 * auth/app-id: Fix regression causing loading of salts to be skipped
 * auth/aws: Improve EC2 describe instances performance [GH-2766]
 * auth/aws: Fix lookup of some instance profile ARNs [GH-2802]
 * auth/aws: Resolve ARNs to internal AWS IDs which makes lookup at various
   points (e.g. renewal time) more robust [GH-2814]
 * auth/aws: Properly honor configured period when using IAM authentication
   [GH-2825]
 * auth/aws: Check that a bound IAM principal is not empty (in the current
   state of the role) before requiring it match the previously authenticated
   client [GH-2781]
 * auth/cert: Fix panic on renewal [GH-2749]
 * auth/cert: Certificate verification for non-CA certs [GH-2761]
 * core/acl: Prevent race condition when compiling ACLs in some scenarios
   [GH-2826]
 * secret/database: Increase wrapping token TTL; in a loaded scenario it could
   be too short
 * secret/generic: Allow integers to be set as the value of `ttl` field as the
   documentation claims is supported [GH-2699]
 * secret/ssh: Added host key callback to ssh client config [GH-2752]
 * storage/s3: Avoid a panic when some bad data is returned [GH-2785]
 * storage/dynamodb: Fix list functions working improperly on Windows [GH-2789]
 * storage/file: Don't leak file descriptors in some error cases
 * storage/swift: Fix pre-v3 project/tenant name reading [GH-2803]

## 0.7.2 (May 8th, 2017)

BUG FIXES:

 * audit: Fix auditing entries containing certain kinds of time values
   [GH-2689]

## 0.7.1 (May 5th, 2017)

DEPRECATIONS/CHANGES:

 * LDAP Auth Backend: Group membership queries will now run as the `binddn`
   user when `binddn`/`bindpass` are configured, rather than as the
   authenticating user as was the case previously.

FEATURES:

 * **AWS IAM Authentication**: IAM principals can get Vault tokens
   automatically, opening AWS-based authentication to users, ECS containers,
   Lambda instances, and more. Signed client identity information retrieved
   using the AWS API `sts:GetCallerIdentity` is validated against the AWS STS
   service before issuing a Vault token. This backend is unified with the
   `aws-ec2` authentication backend under the name `aws`, and allows additional
   EC2-related restrictions to be applied during the IAM authentication; the
   previous EC2 behavior is also still available. [GH-2441]
 * **MSSQL Physical Backend**: You can now use Microsoft SQL Server as your
   Vault physical data store [GH-2546]
 * **Lease Listing and Lookup**: You can now introspect a lease to get its
   creation and expiration properties via `sys/leases/lookup`; with `sudo`
   capability you can also list leases for lookup, renewal, or revocation via
   that endpoint. Various lease functions (renew, revoke, revoke-prefix,
   revoke-force) have also been relocated to `sys/leases/`, but they also work
   at the old paths for compatibility. Reading (but not listing) leases via
   `sys/leases/lookup` is now a part of the current `default` policy. [GH-2650]
 * **TOTP Secret Backend**: You can now store multi-factor authentication keys
   in Vault and use the API to retrieve time-based one-time use passwords on
   demand. The backend can also be used to generate a new key and validate
   passwords generated by that key. [GH-2492]
 * **Database Secret Backend & Secure Plugins (Beta)**: This new secret backend
   combines the functionality of the MySQL, PostgreSQL, MSSQL, and Cassandra
   backends. It also provides a plugin interface for extendability through
   custom databases. [GH-2200]

IMPROVEMENTS:

 * auth/cert: Support for constraints on subject Common Name and DNS/email
   Subject Alternate Names in certificates [GH-2595]
 * auth/ldap: Use the binding credentials to search group membership rather
   than the user credentials [GH-2534]
 * cli/revoke: Add `-self` option to allow revoking the currently active token
   [GH-2596]
 * core: Randomize x coordinate in Shamir shares [GH-2621]
 * replication: Fix a bug when enabling `approle` on a primary before
   secondaries were connected
 * replication: Add heartbeating to ensure firewalls don't kill connections to
   primaries
 * secret/pki: Add `no_store` option that allows certificates to be issued
   without being stored. This removes the ability to look up and/or add to a
   CRL but helps with scaling to very large numbers of certificates. [GH-2565]
 * secret/pki: If used with a role parameter, the `sign-verbatim/<role>`
   endpoint honors the values of `generate_lease`, `no_store`, `ttl` and
   `max_ttl` from the given role [GH-2593]
 * secret/pki: Add role parameter `allow_glob_domains` that enables defining
   names in `allowed_domains` containing `*` glob patterns [GH-2517]
 * secret/pki: Update certificate storage to not use characters that are not
   supported on some filesystems [GH-2575]
 * storage/etcd3: Add `discovery_srv` option to query for SRV records to find
   servers [GH-2521]
 * storage/s3: Support `max_parallel` option to limit concurrent outstanding
   requests [GH-2466]
 * storage/s3: Use pooled transport for http client [GH-2481]
 * storage/swift: Allow domain values for V3 authentication [GH-2554]
 * tidy: Improvements to `auth/token/tidy` and `sys/leases/tidy` to handle more
   cleanup cases [GH-2452]

BUG FIXES:

 * api: Respect a configured path in Vault's address [GH-2588]
 * auth/aws-ec2: New bounds added as criteria to allow role creation [GH-2600]
 * auth/ldap: Don't lowercase groups attached to users [GH-2613]
 * cli: Don't panic if `vault write` is used with the `force` flag but no path
   [GH-2674]
 * core: Help operations should request forward since standbys may not have
   appropriate info [GH-2677]
 * replication: Fix enabling secondaries when certain mounts already existed on
   the primary
 * secret/mssql: Update mssql driver to support queries with colons [GH-2610]
 * secret/pki: Don't lowercase O/OU values in certs [GH-2555]
 * secret/pki: Don't attempt to validate IP SANs if none are provided [GH-2574]
 * secret/ssh: Don't automatically lowercase principles in issued SSH certs
   [GH-2591]
 * storage/consul: Properly handle state events rather than timing out
   [GH-2548]
 * storage/etcd3: Ensure locks are released if client is improperly shut down
   [GH-2526]

## 0.7.0 (March 21th, 2017)

SECURITY:

 * Common name not being validated when `exclude_cn_from_sans` option used in
   `pki` backend: When using a role in the `pki` backend that specified the
   `exclude_cn_from_sans` option, the common name would not then be properly
   validated against the role's constraints. This has been fixed. We recommend
   any users of this feature to upgrade to 0.7 as soon as feasible.

DEPRECATIONS/CHANGES:

 * List Operations Always Use Trailing Slash: Any list operation, whether via
   the `GET` or `LIST` HTTP verb, will now internally canonicalize the path to
   have a trailing slash. This makes policy writing more predictable, as it
   means clients will no longer work or fail based on which client they're
   using or which HTTP verb they're using. However, it also means that policies
   allowing `list` capability must be carefully checked to ensure that they
   contain a trailing slash; some policies may need to be split into multiple
   stanzas to accommodate.
 * PKI Defaults to Unleased Certificates: When issuing certificates from the
   PKI backend, by default, no leases will be issued. If you want to manually
   revoke a certificate, its serial number can be used with the `pki/revoke`
   endpoint. Issuing leases is still possible by enabling the `generate_lease`
   toggle in PKI role entries (this will default to `true` for upgrades, to
   keep existing behavior), which will allow using lease IDs to revoke
   certificates. For installations issuing large numbers of certificates (tens
   to hundreds of thousands, or millions), this will significantly improve
   Vault startup time since leases associated with these certificates will not
   have to be loaded; however note that it also means that revocation of a
   token used to issue certificates will no longer add these certificates to a
   CRL. If this behavior is desired or needed, consider keeping leases enabled
   and ensuring lifetimes are reasonable, and issue long-lived certificates via
   a different role with leases disabled.

FEATURES:

 * **Replication (Enterprise)**: Vault Enterprise now has support for creating
   a multi-datacenter replication set between clusters. The current replication
   offering is based on an asynchronous primary/secondary (1:N) model that
   replicates static data while keeping dynamic data (leases, tokens)
   cluster-local, focusing on horizontal scaling for high-throughput and
   high-fanout deployments.
 * **Response Wrapping & Replication in the Vault Enterprise UI**: Vault
   Enterprise UI now supports looking up and rotating response wrapping tokens,
   as well as creating tokens with arbitrary values inside. It also now
   supports replication functionality, enabling the configuration of a
   replication set in the UI.
 * **Expanded Access Control Policies**: Access control policies can now
   specify allowed and denied parameters -- and, optionally, their values -- to
   control what a client can and cannot submit during an API call. Policies can
   also specify minimum/maximum response wrapping TTLs to both enforce the use
   of response wrapping and control the duration of resultant wrapping tokens.
   See the [policies concepts
   page](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/concepts/policies.html) for more
   information.
 * **SSH Backend As Certificate Authority**: The SSH backend can now be
   configured to sign host and user certificates. Each mount of the backend
   acts as an independent signing authority. The CA key pair can be configured
   for each mount and the public key is accessible via an unauthenticated API
   call; additionally, the backend can generate a public/private key pair for
   you. We recommend using separate mounts for signing host and user
   certificates.

IMPROVEMENTS:

 * api/request: Passing username and password information in API request
   [GH-2469]
 * audit: Logging the token's use count with authentication response and
   logging the remaining uses of the client token with request [GH-2437]
 * auth/approle: Support for restricting the number of uses on the tokens
   issued [GH-2435]
 * auth/aws-ec2: AWS EC2 auth backend now supports constraints for VPC ID,
   Subnet ID and Region [GH-2407]
 * auth/ldap: Use the value of the `LOGNAME` or `USER` env vars for the
   username if not explicitly set on the command line when authenticating
   [GH-2154]
 * audit: Support adding a configurable prefix (such as `@cee`) before each
   line [GH-2359]
 * core: Canonicalize list operations to use a trailing slash [GH-2390]
 * core: Add option to disable caching on a per-mount level [GH-2455]
 * core: Add ability to require valid client certs in listener config [GH-2457]
 * physical/dynamodb: Implement a session timeout to avoid having to use
   recovery mode in the case of an unclean shutdown, which makes HA much safer
   [GH-2141]
 * secret/pki: O (Organization) values can now be set to role-defined values
   for issued/signed certificates [GH-2369]
 * secret/pki: Certificates issued/signed from PKI backend do not generate
   leases by default [GH-2403]
 * secret/pki: When using DER format, still return the private key type
   [GH-2405]
 * secret/pki: Add an intermediate to the CA chain even if it lacks an
   authority key ID [GH-2465]
 * secret/pki: Add role option to use CSR SANs [GH-2489]
 * secret/ssh: SSH backend as CA to sign user and host certificates [GH-2208]
 * secret/ssh: Support reading of SSH CA public key from `config/ca` endpoint
   and also return it when CA key pair is generated [GH-2483]

BUG FIXES:

 * audit: When auditing headers use case-insensitive comparisons [GH-2362]
 * auth/aws-ec2: Return role period in seconds and not nanoseconds [GH-2374]
 * auth/okta: Fix panic if user had no local groups and/or policies set
   [GH-2367]
 * command/server: Fix parsing of redirect address when port is not mentioned
   [GH-2354]
 * physical/postgresql: Fix listing returning incorrect results if there were
   multiple levels of children [GH-2393]

## 0.6.5 (February 7th, 2017)

FEATURES:

 * **Okta Authentication**: A new Okta authentication backend allows you to use
   Okta usernames and passwords to authenticate to Vault. If provided with an
   appropriate Okta API token, group membership can be queried to assign
   policies; users and groups can be defined locally as well.
 * **RADIUS Authentication**: A new RADIUS authentication backend allows using
   a RADIUS server to authenticate to Vault. Policies can be configured for
   specific users or for any authenticated user.
 * **Exportable Transit Keys**: Keys in `transit` can now be marked as
   `exportable` at creation time. This allows a properly ACL'd user to retrieve
   the associated signing key, encryption key, or HMAC key. The `exportable`
   value is returned on a key policy read and cannot be changed, so if a key is
   marked `exportable` it will always be exportable, and if it is not it will
   never be exportable.
 * **Batch Transit Operations**: `encrypt`, `decrypt` and `rewrap` operations
   in the transit backend now support processing multiple input items in one
   call, returning the output of each item in the response.
 * **Configurable Audited HTTP Headers**: You can now specify headers that you
   want to have included in each audit entry, along with whether each header
   should be HMAC'd or kept plaintext. This can be useful for adding additional
   client or network metadata to the audit logs.
 * **Transit Backend UI (Enterprise)**: Vault Enterprise UI now supports the transit
   backend, allowing creation, viewing and editing of named keys as well as using
   those keys to perform supported transit operations directly in the UI.
 * **Socket Audit Backend** A new socket audit backend allows audit logs to be sent
   through TCP, UDP, or UNIX Sockets.

IMPROVEMENTS:

 * auth/aws-ec2: Add support for cross-account auth using STS [GH-2148]
 * auth/aws-ec2: Support issuing periodic tokens [GH-2324]
 * auth/github: Support listing teams and users [GH-2261]
 * auth/ldap: Support adding policies to local users directly, in addition to
   local groups [GH-2152]
 * command/server: Add ability to select and prefer server cipher suites
   [GH-2293]
 * core: Add a nonce to unseal operations as a check (useful mostly for
   support, not as a security principle) [GH-2276]
 * duo: Added ability to supply extra context to Duo pushes [GH-2118]
 * physical/consul: Add option for setting consistency mode on Consul gets
   [GH-2282]
 * physical/etcd: Full v3 API support; code will autodetect which API version
   to use. The v3 code path is significantly less complicated and may be much
   more stable. [GH-2168]
 * secret/pki: Allow specifying OU entries in generated certificate subjects
   [GH-2251]
 * secret mount ui (Enterprise): the secret mount list now shows all mounted
   backends even if the UI cannot browse them. Additional backends can now be
   mounted from the UI as well.

BUG FIXES:

 * auth/token: Fix regression in 0.6.4 where using token store roles as a
   blacklist (with only `disallowed_policies` set) would not work in most
   circumstances [GH-2286]
 * physical/s3: Page responses in client so list doesn't truncate [GH-2224]
 * secret/cassandra: Stop a connection leak that could occur on active node
   failover [GH-2313]
 * secret/pki: When using `sign-verbatim`, don't require a role and use the
   CSR's common name [GH-2243]

## 0.6.4 (December 16, 2016)

SECURITY:

Further details about these security issues can be found in the 0.6.4 upgrade
guide.

 * `default` Policy Privilege Escalation: If a parent token did not have the
   `default` policy attached to its token, it could still create children with
   the `default` policy. This is no longer allowed (unless the parent has
   `sudo` capability for the creation path). In most cases this is low severity
   since the access grants in the `default` policy are meant to be access
   grants that are acceptable for all tokens to have.
 * Leases Not Expired When Limited Use Token Runs Out of Uses: When using
   limited-use tokens to create leased secrets, if the limited-use token was
   revoked due to running out of uses (rather than due to TTL expiration or
   explicit revocation) it would fail to revoke the leased secrets. These
   secrets would still be revoked when their TTL expired, limiting the severity
   of this issue. An endpoint has been added (`auth/token/tidy`) that can
   perform housekeeping tasks on the token store; one of its tasks can detect
   this situation and revoke the associated leases.

FEATURES:

  * **Policy UI (Enterprise)**: Vault Enterprise UI now supports viewing,
    creating, and editing policies.

IMPROVEMENTS:

 * http: Vault now sets a `no-store` cache control header to make it more
   secure in setups that are not end-to-end encrypted [GH-2183]

BUG FIXES:

 * auth/ldap: Don't panic if dialing returns an error and starttls is enabled;
   instead, return the error [GH-2188]
 * ui (Enterprise): Submitting an unseal key now properly resets the
   form so a browser refresh isn't required to continue.

## 0.6.3 (December 6, 2016)

DEPRECATIONS/CHANGES:

 * Request size limitation: A maximum request size of 32MB is imposed to
   prevent a denial of service attack with arbitrarily large requests [GH-2108]
 * LDAP denies passwordless binds by default: In new LDAP mounts, or when
   existing LDAP mounts are rewritten, passwordless binds will be denied by
   default. The new `deny_null_bind` parameter can be set to `false` to allow
   these. [GH-2103]
 * Any audit backend activated satisfies conditions: Previously, when a new
   Vault node was taking over service in an HA cluster, all audit backends were
   required to be loaded successfully to take over active duty. This behavior
   now matches the behavior of the audit logging system itself: at least one
   audit backend must successfully be loaded. The server log contains an error
   when this occurs. This helps keep a Vault HA cluster working when there is a
   misconfiguration on a standby node. [GH-2083]

FEATURES:

 * **Web UI (Enterprise)**: Vault Enterprise now contains a built-in web UI
   that offers access to a number of features, including init/unsealing/sealing,
   authentication via userpass or LDAP, and K/V reading/writing. The capability
   set of the UI will be expanding rapidly in further releases. To enable it,
   set `ui = true` in the top level of Vault's configuration file and point a
   web browser at your Vault address.
 * **Google Cloud Storage Physical Backend**: You can now use GCS for storing
   Vault data [GH-2099]

IMPROVEMENTS:

 * auth/github: Policies can now be assigned to users as well as to teams
   [GH-2079]
 * cli: Set the number of retries on 500 down to 0 by default (no retrying). It
   can be very confusing to users when there is a pause while the retries
   happen if they haven't explicitly set it. With request forwarding the need
   for this is lessened anyways. [GH-2093]
 * core: Response wrapping is now allowed to be specified by backend responses
   (requires backends gaining support) [GH-2088]
 * physical/consul: When announcing service, use the scheme of the Vault server
   rather than the Consul client [GH-2146]
 * secret/consul: Added listing functionality to roles [GH-2065]
 * secret/postgresql: Added `revocation_sql` parameter on the role endpoint to
   enable customization of user revocation SQL statements [GH-2033]
 * secret/transit: Add listing of keys [GH-1987]

BUG FIXES:

 * api/unwrap, command/unwrap: Increase compatibility of `unwrap` command with
   Vault 0.6.1 and older [GH-2014]
 * api/unwrap, command/unwrap: Fix error when no client token exists [GH-2077]
 * auth/approle: Creating the index for the role_id properly [GH-2004]
 * auth/aws-ec2: Handle the case of multiple upgrade attempts when setting the
   instance-profile ARN [GH-2035]
 * auth/ldap: Avoid leaking connections on login [GH-2130]
 * command/path-help: Use the actual error generated by Vault rather than
   always using 500 when there is a path help error [GH-2153]
 * command/ssh: Use temporary file for identity and ensure its deletion before
   the command returns [GH-2016]
 * cli: Fix error printing values with `-field` if the values contained
   formatting directives [GH-2109]
 * command/server: Don't say mlock is supported on OSX when it isn't. [GH-2120]
 * core: Fix bug where a failure to come up as active node (e.g. if an audit
   backend failed) could lead to deadlock [GH-2083]
 * physical/mysql: Fix potential crash during setup due to a query failure
   [GH-2105]
 * secret/consul: Fix panic on user error [GH-2145]

## 0.6.2 (October 5, 2016)

DEPRECATIONS/CHANGES:

 * Convergent Encryption v2: New keys in `transit` using convergent mode will
   use a new nonce derivation mechanism rather than require the user to supply
   a nonce. While not explicitly increasing security, it minimizes the
   likelihood that a user will use the mode improperly and impact the security
   of their keys. Keys in convergent mode that were created in v0.6.1 will
   continue to work with the same mechanism (user-supplied nonce).
 * `etcd` HA off by default: Following in the footsteps of `dynamodb`, the
   `etcd` storage backend now requires that `ha_enabled` be explicitly
   specified in the configuration file. The backend currently has known broken
   HA behavior, so this flag discourages use by default without explicitly
   enabling it. If you are using this functionality, when upgrading, you should
   set `ha_enabled` to `"true"` *before* starting the new versions of Vault.
 * Default/Max lease/token TTLs are now 32 days: In previous versions of Vault
   the default was 30 days, but moving it to 32 days allows some operations
   (e.g. reauthenticating, renewing, etc.) to be performed via a monthly cron
   job.
 * AppRole Secret ID endpoints changed: Secret ID and Secret ID accessors are
   no longer part of request URLs. The GET and DELETE operations are now moved
   to new endpoints (`/lookup` and `/destroy`) which consumes the input from
   the body and not the URL.
 * AppRole requires at least one constraint: previously it was sufficient to
   turn off all AppRole authentication constraints (secret ID, CIDR block) and
   use the role ID only. It is now required that at least one additional
   constraint is enabled. Existing roles are unaffected, but any new roles or
   updated roles will require this.
 * Reading wrapped responses from `cubbyhole/response` is deprecated. The
   `sys/wrapping/unwrap` endpoint should be used instead as it provides
   additional security, auditing, and other benefits. The ability to read
   directly will be removed in a future release.
 * Request Forwarding is now on by default: in 0.6.1 this required toggling on,
   but is now enabled by default. This can be disabled via the
   `"disable_clustering"` parameter in Vault's
   [config](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/config/index.html), or per-request
   with the `X-Vault-No-Request-Forwarding` header.
 * In prior versions a bug caused the `bound_iam_role_arn` value in the
   `aws-ec2` authentication backend to actually use the instance profile ARN.
   This has been corrected, but as a result there is a behavior change. To
   match using the instance profile ARN, a new parameter
   `bound_iam_instance_profile_arn` has been added. Existing roles will
   automatically transfer the value over to the correct parameter, but the next
   time the role is updated, the new meanings will take effect.

FEATURES:

 * **Secret ID CIDR Restrictions in `AppRole`**: Secret IDs generated under an
   approle can now specify a list of CIDR blocks from where the requests to
   generate secret IDs should originate from. If an approle already has CIDR
   restrictions specified, the CIDR restrictions on the secret ID should be a
   subset of those specified on the role [GH-1910]
 * **Initial Root Token PGP Encryption**: Similar to `generate-root`, the root
   token created at initialization time can now be PGP encrypted [GH-1883]
 * **Support Chained Intermediate CAs in `pki`**: The `pki` backend now allows,
   when a CA cert is being supplied as a signed root or intermediate, a trust
   chain of arbitrary length. The chain is returned as a parameter at
   certificate issue/sign time and is retrievable independently as well.
   [GH-1694]
 * **Response Wrapping Enhancements**: There are new endpoints to look up
   response wrapped token parameters; wrap arbitrary values; rotate wrapping
   tokens; and unwrap with enhanced validation. In addition, list operations
   can now be response-wrapped. [GH-1927]
 * **Transit Features**: The `transit` backend now supports generating random
   bytes and SHA sums; HMACs; and signing and verification functionality using
   EC keys (P-256 curve)

IMPROVEMENTS:

 * api: Return error when an invalid (as opposed to incorrect) unseal key is
   submitted, rather than ignoring it [GH-1782]
 * api: Add method to call `auth/token/create-orphan` endpoint [GH-1834]
 * api: Rekey operation now redirects from standbys to master [GH-1862]
 * audit/file: Sending a `SIGHUP` to Vault now causes Vault to close and
   re-open the log file, making it easier to rotate audit logs [GH-1953]
 * auth/aws-ec2: EC2 instances can get authenticated by presenting the identity
   document and its SHA256 RSA digest [GH-1961]
 * auth/aws-ec2: IAM bound parameters on the aws-ec2 backend will perform a
   prefix match instead of exact match [GH-1943]
 * auth/aws-ec2: Added a new constraint `bound_iam_instance_profile_arn` to
   refer to IAM instance profile ARN and fixed the earlier `bound_iam_role_arn`
   to refer to IAM role ARN instead of the instance profile ARN [GH-1913]
 * auth/aws-ec2: Backend generates the nonce by default and clients can
   explicitly disable reauthentication by setting empty nonce [GH-1889]
 * auth/token: Added warnings if tokens and accessors are used in URLs [GH-1806]
 * command/format: The `format` flag on select CLI commands takes `yml` as an
   alias for `yaml` [GH-1899]
 * core: Allow the size of the read cache to be set via the config file, and
   change the default value to 1MB (from 32KB) [GH-1784]
 * core: Allow single and two-character path parameters for most places
   [GH-1811]
 * core: Allow list operations to be response-wrapped [GH-1814]
 * core: Provide better protection against timing attacks in Shamir code
   [GH-1877]
 * core: Unmounting/disabling backends no longer returns an error if the mount
   didn't exist. This is line with elsewhere in Vault's API where `DELETE` is
   an idempotent operation. [GH-1903]
 * credential/approle: At least one constraint is required to be enabled while
   creating and updating a role [GH-1882]
 * secret/cassandra: Added consistency level for use with roles [GH-1931]
 * secret/mysql: SQL for revoking user can be configured on the role [GH-1914]
 * secret/transit: Use HKDF (RFC 5869) as the key derivation function for new
   keys [GH-1812]
 * secret/transit: Empty plaintext values are now allowed [GH-1874]

BUG FIXES:

 * audit: Fix panic being caused by some values logging as underlying Go types
   instead of formatted strings [GH-1912]
 * auth/approle: Fixed panic on deleting approle that doesn't exist [GH-1920]
 * auth/approle: Not letting secret IDs and secret ID accessors to get logged
   in plaintext in audit logs [GH-1947]
 * auth/aws-ec2: Allow authentication if the underlying host is in a bad state
   but the instance is running [GH-1884]
 * auth/token: Fixed metadata getting missed out from token lookup response by
   gracefully handling token entry upgrade [GH-1924]
 * cli: Don't error on newline in token file [GH-1774]
 * core: Pass back content-type header for forwarded requests [GH-1791]
 * core: Fix panic if the same key was given twice to `generate-root` [GH-1827]
 * core: Fix potential deadlock on unmount/remount [GH-1793]
 * physical/file: Remove empty directories from the `file` storage backend [GH-1821]
 * physical/zookeeper: Remove empty directories from the `zookeeper` storage
   backend and add a fix to the `file` storage backend's logic [GH-1964]
 * secret/aws: Added update operation to `aws/sts` path to consider `ttl`
   parameter [39b75c6]
 * secret/aws: Mark STS secrets as non-renewable [GH-1804]
 * secret/cassandra: Properly store session for re-use [GH-1802]
 * secret/ssh: Fix panic when revoking SSH dynamic keys [GH-1781]

## 0.6.1 (August 22, 2016)

DEPRECATIONS/CHANGES:

 * Once the active node is 0.6.1, standby nodes must also be 0.6.1 in order to
   connect to the HA cluster. We recommend following our [general upgrade
   instructions](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/install/upgrade.html) in
   addition to 0.6.1-specific upgrade instructions to ensure that this is not
   an issue.
 * Status codes for sealed/uninitialized Vaults have changed to `503`/`501`
   respectively. See the [version-specific upgrade
   guide](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/install/upgrade-to-0.6.1.html) for
   more details.
 * Root tokens (tokens with the `root` policy) can no longer be created except
   by another root token or the `generate-root` endpoint.
 * Issued certificates from the `pki` backend against new roles created or
   modified after upgrading will contain a set of default key usages.
 * The `dynamodb` physical data store no longer supports HA by default. It has
   some non-ideal behavior around failover that was causing confusion. See the
   [documentation](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/config/index.html#ha_enabled)
   for information on enabling HA mode. It is very important that this
   configuration is added _before upgrading_.
 * The `ldap` backend no longer searches for `memberOf` groups as part of its
   normal flow. Instead, the desired group filter must be specified. This fixes
   some errors and increases speed for directories with different structures,
   but if this behavior has been relied upon, ensure that you see the upgrade
   notes _before upgrading_.
 * `app-id` is now deprecated with the addition of the new AppRole backend.
   There are no plans to remove it, but we encourage using AppRole whenever
   possible, as it offers enhanced functionality and can accommodate many more
   types of authentication paradigms.

FEATURES:

 * **AppRole Authentication Backend**: The `approle` backend is a
   machine-oriented authentication backend that provides a similar concept to
   App-ID while adding many missing features, including a pull model that
   allows for the backend to generate authentication credentials rather than
   requiring operators or other systems to push credentials in. It should be
   useful in many more situations than App-ID. The inclusion of this backend
   deprecates App-ID. [GH-1426]
 * **Request Forwarding**: Vault servers can now forward requests to each other
   rather than redirecting clients. This feature is off by default in 0.6.1 but
   will be on by default in the next release. See the [HA concepts
   page](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/concepts/ha.html) for information on
   enabling and configuring it. [GH-443]
 * **Convergent Encryption in `Transit`**: The `transit` backend now supports a
   convergent encryption mode where the same plaintext will produce the same
   ciphertext. Although very useful in some situations, this has potential
   security implications, which are mostly mitigated by requiring the use of
   key derivation when convergent encryption is enabled. See [the `transit`
   backend
   documentation](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/secrets/transit/index.html)
   for more details. [GH-1537]
 * **Improved LDAP Group Filters**: The `ldap` auth backend now uses templates
   to define group filters, providing the capability to support some
   directories that could not easily be supported before (especially specific
   Active Directory setups with nested groups). [GH-1388]
 * **Key Usage Control in `PKI`**: Issued certificates from roles created or
   modified after upgrading contain a set of default key usages for increased
   compatibility with OpenVPN and some other software. This set can be changed
   when writing a role definition. Existing roles are unaffected. [GH-1552]
 * **Request Retrying in the CLI and Go API**: Requests that fail with a `5xx`
   error code will now retry after a backoff. The maximum total number of
   retries (including disabling this functionality) can be set with an
   environment variable. See the [environment variable
   documentation](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/commands/environment.html)
   for more details. [GH-1594]
 * **Service Discovery in `vault init`**: The new `-auto` option on `vault init`
   will perform service discovery using Consul. When only one node is discovered,
   it will be initialized and when more than one node is discovered, they will
   be output for easy selection. See `vault init --help` for more details. [GH-1642]
 * **MongoDB Secret Backend**: Generate dynamic unique MongoDB database
   credentials based on configured roles. Sponsored by
   [CommerceHub](http://www.commercehub.com/). [GH-1414]
 * **Circonus Metrics Integration**: Vault can now send metrics to
   [Circonus](http://www.circonus.com/). See the [configuration
   documentation](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/config/index.html) for
   details. [GH-1646]

IMPROVEMENTS:

 * audit: Added a unique identifier to each request which will also be found in
   the request portion of the response. [GH-1650]
 * auth/aws-ec2: Added a new constraint `bound_account_id` to the role
   [GH-1523]
 * auth/aws-ec2: Added a new constraint `bound_iam_role_arn` to the role
   [GH-1522]
 * auth/aws-ec2: Added `ttl` field for the role [GH-1703]
 * auth/ldap, secret/cassandra, physical/consul: Clients with `tls.Config`
   have the minimum TLS version set to 1.2 by default. This is configurable.
 * auth/token: Added endpoint to list accessors [GH-1676]
 * auth/token: Added `disallowed_policies` option to token store roles [GH-1681]
 * auth/token: `root` or `sudo` tokens can now create periodic tokens via
   `auth/token/create`; additionally, the same token can now be periodic and
   have an explicit max TTL [GH-1725]
 * build: Add support for building on Solaris/Illumos [GH-1726]
 * cli: Output formatting in the presence of warnings in the response object
   [GH-1533]
 * cli: `vault auth` command supports a `-path` option to take in the path at
   which the auth backend is enabled, thereby allowing authenticating against
   different paths using the command options [GH-1532]
 * cli: `vault auth -methods` will now display the config settings of the mount
   [GH-1531]
 * cli: `vault read/write/unwrap -field` now allows selecting token response
   fields [GH-1567]
 * cli: `vault write -field` now allows selecting wrapped response fields
   [GH-1567]
 * command/status: Version information and cluster details added to the output
   of `vault status` command [GH-1671]
 * core: Response wrapping is now enabled for login endpoints [GH-1588]
 * core: The duration of leadership is now exported via events through
   telemetry [GH-1625]
 * core: `sys/capabilities-self` is now accessible as part of the `default`
   policy [GH-1695]
 * core: `sys/renew` is now accessible as part of the `default` policy [GH-1701]
 * core: Unseal keys will now be returned in both hex and base64 forms, and
   either can be used [GH-1734]
 * core: Responses from most `/sys` endpoints now return normal `api.Secret`
   structs in addition to the values they carried before. This means that
   response wrapping can now be used with most authenticated `/sys` operations
   [GH-1699]
 * physical/etcd: Support `ETCD_ADDR` env var for specifying addresses [GH-1576]
 * physical/consul: Allowing additional tags to be added to Consul service
   registration via `service_tags` option [GH-1643]
 * secret/aws: Listing of roles is supported now  [GH-1546]
 * secret/cassandra: Add `connect_timeout` value for Cassandra connection
   configuration [GH-1581]
 * secret/mssql,mysql,postgresql: Reading of connection settings is supported
   in all the sql backends [GH-1515]
 * secret/mysql: Added optional maximum idle connections value to MySQL
   connection configuration [GH-1635]
 * secret/mysql: Use a combination of the role name and token display name in
   generated user names and allow the length to be controlled [GH-1604]
 * secret/{cassandra,mssql,mysql,postgresql}: SQL statements can now be passed
   in via one of four ways: a semicolon-delimited string, a base64-delimited
   string, a serialized JSON string array, or a base64-encoded serialized JSON
   string array [GH-1686]
 * secret/ssh: Added `allowed_roles` to vault-ssh-helper's config and returning
   role name as part of response of `verify` API
 * secret/ssh: Added passthrough of command line arguments to `ssh` [GH-1680]
 * sys/health: Added version information to the response of health status
   endpoint [GH-1647]
 * sys/health: Cluster information isbe returned as part of health status when
   Vault is unsealed [GH-1671]
 * sys/mounts: MountTable data is compressed before serializing to accommodate
   thousands of mounts [GH-1693]
 * website: The [token
   concepts](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/concepts/tokens.html) page has
   been completely rewritten [GH-1725]

BUG FIXES:

 * auth/aws-ec2: Added a nil check for stored whitelist identity object
   during renewal [GH-1542]
 * auth/cert: Fix panic if no client certificate is supplied [GH-1637]
 * auth/token: Don't report that a non-expiring root token is renewable, as
   attempting to renew it results in an error [GH-1692]
 * cli: Don't retry a command when a redirection is received [GH-1724]
 * core: Fix regression causing status codes to be `400` in most non-5xx error
   cases [GH-1553]
 * core: Fix panic that could occur during a leadership transition [GH-1627]
 * physical/postgres: Remove use of prepared statements as this causes
   connection multiplexing software to break [GH-1548]
 * physical/consul: Multiple Vault nodes on the same machine leading to check ID
   collisions were resulting in incorrect health check responses [GH-1628]
 * physical/consul: Fix deregistration of health checks on exit [GH-1678]
 * secret/postgresql: Check for existence of role before attempting deletion
   [GH-1575]
 * secret/postgresql: Handle revoking roles that have privileges on sequences
   [GH-1573]
 * secret/postgresql(,mysql,mssql): Fix incorrect use of database over
   transaction object which could lead to connection exhaustion [GH-1572]
 * secret/pki: Fix parsing CA bundle containing trailing whitespace [GH-1634]
 * secret/pki: Fix adding email addresses as SANs [GH-1688]
 * secret/pki: Ensure that CRL values are always UTC, per RFC [GH-1727]
 * sys/seal-status: Fixed nil Cluster object while checking seal status [GH-1715]

## 0.6.0 (June 14th, 2016)

SECURITY:

 * Although `sys/revoke-prefix` was intended to revoke prefixes of secrets (via
   lease IDs, which incorporate path information) and
   `auth/token/revoke-prefix` was intended to revoke prefixes of tokens (using
   the tokens' paths and, since 0.5.2, role information), in implementation
   they both behaved exactly the same way since a single component in Vault is
   responsible for managing lifetimes of both, and the type of the tracked
   lifetime was not being checked. The end result was that either endpoint
   could revoke both secret leases and tokens. We consider this a very minor
   security issue as there are a number of mitigating factors: both endpoints
   require `sudo` capability in addition to write capability, preventing
   blanket ACL path globs from providing access; both work by using the prefix
   to revoke as a part of the endpoint path, allowing them to be properly
   ACL'd; and both are intended for emergency scenarios and users should
   already not generally have access to either one. In order to prevent
   confusion, we have simply removed `auth/token/revoke-prefix` in 0.6, and
   `sys/revoke-prefix` will be meant for both leases and tokens instead.

DEPRECATIONS/CHANGES:

 * `auth/token/revoke-prefix` has been removed. See the security notice for
   details. [GH-1280]
 * Vault will now automatically register itself as the `vault` service when
   using the `consul` backend and will perform its own health checks.  See
   the Consul backend documentation for information on how to disable
   auto-registration and service checks.
 * List operations that do not find any keys now return a `404` status code
   rather than an empty response object [GH-1365]
 * CA certificates issued from the `pki` backend no longer have associated
   leases, and any CA certs already issued will ignore revocation requests from
   the lease manager. This is to prevent CA certificates from being revoked
   when the token used to issue the certificate expires; it was not be obvious
   to users that they need to ensure that the token lifetime needed to be at
   least as long as a potentially very long-lived CA cert.

FEATURES:

 * **AWS EC2 Auth Backend**: Provides a secure introduction mechanism for AWS
   EC2 instances allowing automated retrieval of Vault tokens. Unlike most
   Vault authentication backends, this backend does not require first deploying
   or provisioning security-sensitive credentials (tokens, username/password,
   client certificates, etc). Instead, it treats AWS as a Trusted Third Party
   and uses the cryptographically signed dynamic metadata information that
   uniquely represents each EC2 instance. [Vault
   Enterprise](https://www.hashicorp.com/vault.html) customers have access to a
   turnkey client that speaks the backend API and makes access to a Vault token
   easy.
 * **Response Wrapping**: Nearly any response within Vault can now be wrapped
   inside a single-use, time-limited token's cubbyhole, taking the [Cubbyhole
   Authentication
   Principles](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/vault-cubbyhole-principles.html)
   mechanism to its logical conclusion. Retrieving the original response is as
   simple as a single API command or the new `vault unwrap` command. This makes
   secret distribution easier and more secure, including secure introduction.
 * **Azure Physical Backend**: You can now use Azure blob object storage as
   your Vault physical data store [GH-1266]
 * **Swift Physical Backend**: You can now use Swift blob object storage as
   your Vault physical data store [GH-1425]
 * **Consul Backend Health Checks**: The Consul backend will automatically
   register a `vault` service and perform its own health checking. By default
   the active node can be found at `active.vault.service.consul` and all with
   standby nodes are `standby.vault.service.consul`. Sealed vaults are marked
   critical and are not listed by default in Consul's service discovery.  See
   the documentation for details. [GH-1349]
 * **Explicit Maximum Token TTLs**: You can now set explicit maximum TTLs on
   tokens that do not honor changes in the system- or mount-set values. This is
   useful, for instance, when the max TTL of the system or the `auth/token`
   mount must be set high to accommodate certain needs but you want more
   granular restrictions on tokens being issued directly from the Token
   authentication backend at `auth/token`. [GH-1399]
 * **Non-Renewable Tokens**: When creating tokens directly through the token
   authentication backend, you can now specify in both token store roles and
   the API whether or not a token should be renewable, defaulting to `true`.
 * **RabbitMQ Secret Backend**: Vault can now generate credentials for
   RabbitMQ. Vhosts and tags can be defined within roles. [GH-788]

IMPROVEMENTS:

 * audit: Add the DisplayName value to the copy of the Request object embedded
   in the associated Response, to match the original Request object [GH-1387]
 * audit: Enable auditing of the `seal` and `step-down` commands [GH-1435]
 * backends: Remove most `root`/`sudo` paths in favor of normal ACL mechanisms.
   A particular exception are any current MFA paths. A few paths in `token` and
   `sys` also require `root` or `sudo`. [GH-1478]
 * command/auth: Restore the previous authenticated token if the `auth` command
   fails to authenticate the provided token [GH-1233]
 * command/write: `-format` and `-field` can now be used with the `write`
   command [GH-1228]
 * core: Add `mlock` support for FreeBSD, OpenBSD, and Darwin [GH-1297]
 * core: Don't keep lease timers around when tokens are revoked [GH-1277]
 * core: If using the `disable_cache` option, caches for the policy store and
   the `transit` backend are now disabled as well [GH-1346]
 * credential/cert: Renewal requests are rejected if the set of policies has
   changed since the token was issued [GH-477]
 * credential/cert: Check CRLs for specific non-CA certs configured in the
   backend [GH-1404]
 * credential/ldap: If `groupdn` is not configured, skip searching LDAP and
   only return policies for local groups, plus a warning [GH-1283]
 * credential/ldap: `vault list` support for users and groups [GH-1270]
 * credential/ldap: Support for the `memberOf` attribute for group membership
   searching [GH-1245]
 * credential/userpass: Add list support for users [GH-911]
 * credential/userpass: Remove user configuration paths from requiring sudo, in
   favor of normal ACL mechanisms [GH-1312]
 * credential/token: Sanitize policies and add `default` policies in appropriate
   places [GH-1235]
 * credential/token: Setting the renewable status of a token is now possible
   via `vault token-create` and the API. The default is true, but tokens can be
   specified as non-renewable. [GH-1499]
 * secret/aws: Use chain credentials to allow environment/EC2 instance/shared
   providers [GH-307]
 * secret/aws: Support for STS AssumeRole functionality [GH-1318]
 * secret/consul: Reading consul access configuration supported. The response
   will contain non-sensitive information only [GH-1445]
 * secret/pki: Added `exclude_cn_from_sans` field to prevent adding the CN to
   DNS or Email Subject Alternate Names [GH-1220]
 * secret/pki: Added list support for certificates [GH-1466]
 * sys/capabilities: Enforce ACL checks for requests that query the capabilities
   of a token on a given path [GH-1221]
 * sys/health: Status information can now be retrieved with `HEAD` [GH-1509]

BUG FIXES:

 * command/read: Fix panic when using `-field` with a non-string value [GH-1308]
 * command/token-lookup: Fix TTL showing as 0 depending on how a token was
   created. This only affected the value shown at lookup, not the token
   behavior itself. [GH-1306]
 * command/various: Tell the JSON decoder to not convert all numbers to floats;
   fixes some various places where numbers were showing up in scientific
   notation
 * command/server: Prioritized `devRootTokenID` and `devListenAddress` flags
   over their respective env vars [GH-1480]
 * command/ssh: Provided option to disable host key checking. The automated
   variant of `vault ssh` command uses `sshpass` which was failing to handle
   host key checking presented by the `ssh` binary. [GH-1473]
 * core: Properly persist mount-tuned TTLs for auth backends [GH-1371]
 * core: Don't accidentally crosswire SIGINT to the reload handler [GH-1372]
 * credential/github: Make organization comparison case-insensitive during
   login [GH-1359]
 * credential/github: Fix panic when renewing a token created with some earlier
   versions of Vault [GH-1510]
 * credential/github: The token used to log in via `vault auth` can now be
   specified in the `VAULT_AUTH_GITHUB_TOKEN` environment variable [GH-1511]
 * credential/ldap: Fix problem where certain error conditions when configuring
   or opening LDAP connections would cause a panic instead of return a useful
   error message [GH-1262]
 * credential/token: Fall back to normal parent-token semantics if
   `allowed_policies` is empty for a role. Using `allowed_policies` of
   `default` resulted in the same behavior anyways. [GH-1276]
 * credential/token: Fix issues renewing tokens when using the "suffix"
   capability of token roles [GH-1331]
 * credential/token: Fix lookup via POST showing the request token instead of
   the desired token [GH-1354]
 * credential/various: Fix renewal conditions when `default` policy is not
   contained in the backend config [GH-1256]
 * physical/s3: Don't panic in certain error cases from bad S3 responses [GH-1353]
 * secret/consul: Use non-pooled Consul API client to avoid leaving files open
   [GH-1428]
 * secret/pki: Don't check whether a certificate is destined to be a CA
   certificate if sign-verbatim endpoint is used [GH-1250]

## 0.5.3 (May 27th, 2016)

SECURITY:

 * Consul ACL Token Revocation: An issue was reported to us indicating that
   generated Consul ACL tokens were not being properly revoked. Upon
   investigation, we found that this behavior was reproducible in a specific
   scenario: when a generated lease for a Consul ACL token had been renewed
   prior to revocation. In this case, the generated token was not being
   properly persisted internally through the renewal function, leading to an
   error during revocation due to the missing token. Unfortunately, this was
   coded as a user error rather than an internal error, and the revocation
   logic was expecting internal errors if revocation failed. As a result, the
   revocation logic believed the revocation to have succeeded when it in fact
   failed, causing the lease to be dropped while the token was still valid
   within Consul. In this release, the Consul backend properly persists the
   token through renewals, and the revocation logic has been changed to
   consider any error type to have been a failure to revoke, causing the lease
   to persist and attempt to be revoked later.

We have written an example shell script that searches through Consul's ACL
tokens and looks for those generated by Vault, which can be used as a template
for a revocation script as deemed necessary for any particular security
response. The script is available at
https://gist.github.com/jefferai/6233c2963f9407a858d84f9c27d725c0

Please note that any outstanding leases for Consul tokens produced prior to
0.5.3 that have been renewed will continue to exhibit this behavior. As a
result, we recommend either revoking all tokens produced by the backend and
issuing new ones, or if needed, a more advanced variant of the provided example
could use the timestamp embedded in each generated token's name to decide which
tokens are too old and should be deleted. This could then be run periodically
up until the maximum lease time for any outstanding pre-0.5.3 tokens has
expired.

This is a security-only release. There are no other code changes since 0.5.2.
The binaries have one additional change: they are built against Go 1.6.1 rather
than Go 1.6, as Go 1.6.1 contains two security fixes to the Go programming
language itself.

## 0.5.2 (March 16th, 2016)

FEATURES:

 * **MSSQL Backend**: Generate dynamic unique MSSQL database credentials based
   on configured roles [GH-998]
 * **Token Accessors**: Vault now provides an accessor with each issued token.
   This accessor is an identifier that can be used for a limited set of
   actions, notably for token revocation. This value can be logged in
   plaintext to audit logs, and in combination with the plaintext metadata
   logged to audit logs, provides a searchable and straightforward way to
   revoke particular users' or services' tokens in many cases. To enable
   plaintext audit logging of these accessors, set `hmac_accessor=false` when
   enabling an audit backend.
 * **Token Credential Backend Roles**: Roles can now be created in the `token`
   credential backend that allow modifying token behavior in ways that are not
   otherwise exposed or easily delegated. This allows creating tokens with a
   fixed set (or subset) of policies (rather than a subset of the calling
   token's), periodic tokens with a fixed TTL but no expiration, specified
   prefixes, and orphans.
 * **Listener Certificate Reloading**: Vault's configured listeners now reload
   their TLS certificate and private key when the Vault process receives a
   SIGHUP.

IMPROVEMENTS:

 * auth/token: Endpoints optionally accept tokens from the HTTP body rather
   than just from the URLs [GH-1211]
 * auth/token,sys/capabilities: Added new endpoints
   `auth/token/lookup-accessor`, `auth/token/revoke-accessor` and
   `sys/capabilities-accessor`, which enables performing the respective actions
   with just the accessor of the tokens, without having access to the actual
   token [GH-1188]
 * core: Ignore leading `/` in policy paths [GH-1170]
 * core: Ignore leading `/` in mount paths [GH-1172]
 * command/policy-write: Provided HCL is now validated for format violations
   and provides helpful information around where the violation occurred
   [GH-1200]
 * command/server: The initial root token ID when running in `-dev` mode can
   now be specified via `-dev-root-token-id` or the environment variable
   `VAULT_DEV_ROOT_TOKEN_ID` [GH-1162]
 * command/server: The listen address when running in `-dev` mode can now be
   specified via `-dev-listen-address` or the environment variable
   `VAULT_DEV_LISTEN_ADDRESS` [GH-1169]
 * command/server: The configured listeners now reload their TLS
   certificates/keys when Vault is SIGHUP'd [GH-1196]
 * command/step-down: New `vault step-down` command and API endpoint to force
   the targeted node to give up active status, but without sealing. The node
   will wait ten seconds before attempting to grab the lock again. [GH-1146]
 * command/token-renew: Allow no token to be passed in; use `renew-self` in
   this case. Change the behavior for any token being passed in to use `renew`.
   [GH-1150]
 * credential/app-id: Allow `app-id` parameter to be given in the login path;
   this causes the `app-id` to be part of the token path, making it easier to
   use with `revoke-prefix` [GH-424]
 * credential/cert: Non-CA certificates can be used for authentication. They
   must be matched exactly (issuer and serial number) for authentication, and
   the certificate must carry the client authentication or 'any' extended usage
   attributes. [GH-1153]
 * credential/cert: Subject and Authority key IDs are output in metadata; this
   allows more flexible searching/revocation in the audit logs [GH-1183]
 * credential/cert: Support listing configured certs [GH-1212]
 * credential/userpass: Add support for `create`/`update` capability
   distinction in user path, and add user-specific endpoints to allow changing
   the password and policies [GH-1216]
 * credential/token: Add roles [GH-1155]
 * secret/mssql: Add MSSQL backend [GH-998]
 * secret/pki: Add revocation time (zero or Unix epoch) to `pki/cert/SERIAL`
   endpoint [GH-1180]
 * secret/pki: Sanitize serial number in `pki/revoke` endpoint to allow some
   other formats [GH-1187]
 * secret/ssh: Added documentation for `ssh/config/zeroaddress` endpoint.
   [GH-1154]
 * sys: Added new endpoints `sys/capabilities` and `sys/capabilities-self` to
   fetch the capabilities of a token on a given path [GH-1171]
 * sys: Added `sys/revoke-force`, which enables a user to ignore backend errors
   when revoking a lease, necessary in some emergency/failure scenarios
   [GH-1168]
 * sys: The return codes from `sys/health` can now be user-specified via query
   parameters [GH-1199]

BUG FIXES:

 * logical/cassandra: Apply hyphen/underscore replacement to the entire
   generated username, not just the UUID, in order to handle token display name
   hyphens [GH-1140]
 * physical/etcd: Output actual error when cluster sync fails [GH-1141]
 * vault/expiration: Not letting the error responses from the backends to skip
   during renewals [GH-1176]

## 0.5.1 (February 25th, 2016)

DEPRECATIONS/CHANGES:

 * RSA keys less than 2048 bits are no longer supported in the PKI backend.
   1024-bit keys are considered unsafe and are disallowed in the Internet PKI.
   The `pki` backend has enforced SHA256 hashes in signatures from the
   beginning, and software that can handle these hashes should be able to
   handle larger key sizes. [GH-1095]
 * The PKI backend now does not automatically delete expired certificates,
   including from the CRL. Doing so could lead to a situation where a time
   mismatch between the Vault server and clients could result in a certificate
   that would not be considered expired by a client being removed from the CRL.
   The new `pki/tidy` endpoint can be used to trigger expirations. [GH-1129]
 * The `cert` backend now performs a variant of channel binding at renewal time
   for increased security. In order to not overly burden clients, a notion of
   identity is used. This functionality can be disabled. See the 0.5.1 upgrade
   guide for more specific information [GH-1127]

FEATURES:

 * **Codebase Audit**: Vault's 0.5 codebase was audited by iSEC. (The terms of
   the audit contract do not allow us to make the results public.) [GH-220]

IMPROVEMENTS:

 * api: The `VAULT_TLS_SERVER_NAME` environment variable can be used to control
   the SNI header during TLS connections [GH-1131]
 * api/health: Add the server's time in UTC to health responses [GH-1117]
 * command/rekey and command/generate-root: These now return the status at
   attempt initialization time, rather than requiring a separate fetch for the
   nonce [GH-1054]
 * credential/cert: Don't require root/sudo tokens for the `certs/` and `crls/`
   paths; use normal ACL behavior instead [GH-468]
 * credential/github: The validity of the token used for login will be checked
   at renewal time [GH-1047]
 * credential/github: The `config` endpoint no longer requires a root token;
   normal ACL path matching applies
 * deps: Use the standardized Go 1.6 vendoring system
 * secret/aws: Inform users of AWS-imposed policy restrictions around STS
   tokens if they attempt to use an invalid policy [GH-1113]
 * secret/mysql: The MySQL backend now allows disabling verification of the
   `connection_url` [GH-1096]
 * secret/pki: Submitted CSRs are now verified to have the correct key type and
   minimum number of bits according to the role. The exception is intermediate
   CA signing and the `sign-verbatim` path [GH-1104]
 * secret/pki: New `tidy` endpoint to allow expunging expired certificates.
   [GH-1129]
 * secret/postgresql: The PostgreSQL backend now allows disabling verification
   of the `connection_url` [GH-1096]
 * secret/ssh: When verifying an OTP, return 400 if it is not valid instead of
   204 [GH-1086]
 * credential/app-id: App ID backend will check the validity of app-id and user-id
   during renewal time [GH-1039]
 * credential/cert: TLS Certificates backend, during renewal, will now match the
   client identity with the client identity used during login [GH-1127]

BUG FIXES:

 * credential/ldap: Properly escape values being provided to search filters
   [GH-1100]
 * secret/aws: Capping on length of usernames for both IAM and STS types
   [GH-1102]
 * secret/pki: If a cert is not found during lookup of a serial number,
   respond with a 400 rather than a 500 [GH-1085]
 * secret/postgresql: Add extra revocation statements to better handle more
   permission scenarios [GH-1053]
 * secret/postgresql: Make connection_url work properly [GH-1112]

## 0.5.0 (February 10, 2016)

SECURITY:

 * Previous versions of Vault could allow a malicious user to hijack the rekey
   operation by canceling an operation in progress and starting a new one. The
   practical application of this is very small. If the user was an unseal key
   owner, they could attempt to do this in order to either receive unencrypted
   reseal keys or to replace the PGP keys used for encryption with ones under
   their control. However, since this would invalidate any rekey progress, they
   would need other unseal key holders to resubmit, which would be rather
   suspicious during this manual operation if they were not also the original
   initiator of the rekey attempt. If the user was not an unseal key holder,
   there is no benefit to be gained; the only outcome that could be attempted
   would be a denial of service against a legitimate rekey operation by sending
   cancel requests over and over. Thanks to Josh Snyder for the report!

DEPRECATIONS/CHANGES:

 * `s3` physical backend: Environment variables are now preferred over
   configuration values. This makes it behave similar to the rest of Vault,
   which, in increasing order of preference, uses values from the configuration
   file, environment variables, and CLI flags. [GH-871]
 * `etcd` physical backend: `sync` functionality is now supported and turned on
   by default. This can be disabled. [GH-921]
 * `transit`: If a client attempts to encrypt a value with a key that does not
   yet exist, what happens now depends on the capabilities set in the client's
   ACL policies. If the client has `create` (or `create` and `update`)
   capability, the key will upsert as in the past. If the client has `update`
   capability, they will receive an error. [GH-1012]
 * `token-renew` CLI command: If the token given for renewal is the same as the
   client token, the `renew-self` endpoint will be used in the API. Given that
   the `default` policy (by default) allows all clients access to the
   `renew-self` endpoint, this makes it much more likely that the intended
   operation will be successful. [GH-894]
 * Token `lookup`: the `ttl` value in the response now reflects the actual
   remaining TTL rather than the original TTL specified when the token was
   created; this value is now located in `creation_ttl` [GH-986]
 * Vault no longer uses grace periods on leases or token TTLs. Uncertainty
   about the length grace period for any given backend could cause confusion
   and uncertainty. [GH-1002]
 * `rekey`: Rekey now requires a nonce to be supplied with key shares. This
   nonce is generated at the start of a rekey attempt and is unique for that
   attempt.
 * `status`: The exit code for the `status` CLI command is now `2` for an
   uninitialized Vault instead of `1`. `1` is returned for errors. This better
   matches the rest of the CLI.

FEATURES:

 * **Split Data/High Availability Physical Backends**: You can now configure
   two separate physical backends: one to be used for High Availability
   coordination and another to be used for encrypted data storage. See the
   [configuration
   documentation](https://vaultproject.io/docs/config/index.html) for details.
   [GH-395]
 * **Fine-Grained Access Control**: Policies can now use the `capabilities` set
   to specify fine-grained control over operations allowed on a path, including
   separation of `sudo` privileges from other privileges. These can be mixed
   and matched in any way desired. The `policy` value is kept for backwards
   compatibility. See the [updated policy
   documentation](https://vaultproject.io/docs/concepts/policies.html) for
   details. [GH-914]
 * **List Support**: Listing is now supported via the API and the new `vault
   list` command. This currently supports listing keys in the `generic` and
   `cubbyhole` backends and a few other places (noted in the IMPROVEMENTS
   section below). Different parts of the API and backends will need to
   implement list capabilities in ways that make sense to particular endpoints,
   so further support will appear over time. [GH-617]
 * **Root Token Generation via Unseal Keys**: You can now use the
   `generate-root` CLI command to generate new orphaned, non-expiring root
   tokens in case the original is lost or revoked (accidentally or
   purposefully). This requires a quorum of unseal key holders. The output
   value is protected via any PGP key of the initiator's choosing or a one-time
   pad known only to the initiator (a suitable pad can be generated via the
   `-genotp` flag to the command. [GH-915]
 * **Unseal Key Archiving**: You can now optionally have Vault store your
   unseal keys in your chosen physical store for disaster recovery purposes.
   This option is only available when the keys are encrypted with PGP. [GH-907]
 * **Keybase Support for PGP Encryption Keys**: You can now specify Keybase
   users when passing in PGP keys to the `init`, `rekey`, and `generate-root`
   CLI commands.  Public keys for these users will be fetched automatically.
   [GH-901]
 * **DynamoDB HA Physical Backend**: There is now a new, community-supported
   HA-enabled physical backend using Amazon DynamoDB. See the [configuration
   documentation](https://vaultproject.io/docs/config/index.html) for details.
   [GH-878]
 * **PostgreSQL Physical Backend**: There is now a new, community-supported
   physical backend using PostgreSQL. See the [configuration
   documentation](https://vaultproject.io/docs/config/index.html) for details.
   [GH-945]
 * **STS Support in AWS Secret Backend**: You can now use the AWS secret
   backend to fetch STS tokens rather than IAM users. [GH-927]
 * **Speedups in the transit backend**: The `transit` backend has gained a
   cache, and now loads only the working set of keys (e.g. from the
   `min_decryption_version` to the current key version) into its working set.
   This provides large speedups and potential memory savings when the `rotate`
   feature of the backend is used heavily.

IMPROVEMENTS:

 * cli: Output secrets sorted by key name [GH-830]
 * cli: Support YAML as an output format [GH-832]
 * cli: Show an error if the output format is incorrect, rather than falling
   back to an empty table [GH-849]
 * cli: Allow setting the `advertise_addr` for HA via the
   `VAULT_ADVERTISE_ADDR` environment variable [GH-581]
 * cli/generate-root: Add generate-root and associated functionality [GH-915]
 * cli/init: Add `-check` flag that returns whether Vault is initialized
   [GH-949]
 * cli/server: Use internal functions for the token-helper rather than shelling
   out, which fixes some problems with using a static binary in Docker or paths
   with multiple spaces when launching in `-dev` mode [GH-850]
 * cli/token-lookup: Add token-lookup command [GH-892]
 * command/{init,rekey}: Allow ASCII-armored keychain files to be arguments for
   `-pgp-keys` [GH-940]
 * conf: Use normal bool values rather than empty/non-empty for the
   `tls_disable` option [GH-802]
 * credential/ldap: Add support for binding, both anonymously (to discover a
   user DN) and via a username and password [GH-975]
 * credential/token: Add `last_renewal_time` to token lookup calls [GH-896]
 * credential/token: Change `ttl` to reflect the current remaining TTL; the
   original value is in `creation_ttl` [GH-1007]
 * helper/certutil: Add ability to parse PKCS#8 bundles [GH-829]
 * logical/aws: You can now get STS tokens instead of IAM users [GH-927]
 * logical/cassandra: Add `protocol_version` parameter to set the CQL proto
   version [GH-1005]
 * logical/cubbyhole: Add cubbyhole access to default policy [GH-936]
 * logical/mysql: Add list support for roles path [GH-984]
 * logical/pki: Fix up key usages being specified for CAs [GH-989]
 * logical/pki: Add list support for roles path [GH-985]
 * logical/pki: Allow `pem_bundle` to be specified as the format, which
   provides a concatenated PEM bundle of returned values [GH-1008]
 * logical/pki: Add 30 seconds of slack to the validity start period to
   accommodate some clock skew in machines [GH-1036]
 * logical/postgres: Add `max_idle_connections` parameter [GH-950]
 * logical/postgres: Add list support for roles path
 * logical/ssh: Add list support for roles path [GH-983]
 * logical/transit: Keys are archived and only keys between the latest version
   and `min_decryption_version` are loaded into the working set. This can
   provide a very large speed increase when rotating keys very often. [GH-977]
 * logical/transit: Keys are now cached, which should provide a large speedup
   in most cases [GH-979]
 * physical/cache: Use 2Q cache instead of straight LRU [GH-908]
 * physical/etcd: Support basic auth [GH-859]
 * physical/etcd: Support sync functionality and enable by default [GH-921]

BUG FIXES:

 * api: Correct the HTTP verb used in the LookupSelf method [GH-887]
 * api: Fix the output of `Sys().MountConfig(...)` to return proper values
   [GH-1017]
 * command/read: Fix panic when an empty argument was given [GH-923]
 * command/ssh: Fix panic when username lookup fails [GH-886]
 * core: When running in standalone mode, don't advertise that we are active
   until post-unseal setup completes [GH-872]
 * core: Update go-cleanhttp dependency to ensure idle connections aren't
   leaked [GH-867]
 * core: Don't allow tokens to have duplicate policies [GH-897]
 * core: Fix regression in `sys/renew` that caused information stored in the
   Secret part of the response to be lost [GH-912]
 * physical: Use square brackets when setting an IPv6-based advertise address
   as the auto-detected advertise address [GH-883]
 * physical/s3: Use an initialized client when using IAM roles to fix a
   regression introduced against newer versions of the AWS Go SDK [GH-836]
 * secret/pki: Fix a condition where unmounting could fail if the CA
   certificate was not properly loaded [GH-946]
 * secret/ssh: Fix a problem where SSH connections were not always closed
   properly [GH-942]

MISC:

 * Clarified our stance on support for community-derived physical backends.
   See the [configuration
   documentation](https://vaultproject.io/docs/config/index.html) for details.
 * Add `vault-java` to libraries [GH-851]
 * Various minor documentation fixes and improvements [GH-839] [GH-854]
   [GH-861] [GH-876] [GH-899] [GH-900] [GH-904] [GH-923] [GH-924] [GH-958]
   [GH-959] [GH-981] [GH-990] [GH-1024] [GH-1025]

BUILD NOTE:

 * The HashiCorp-provided binary release of Vault 0.5.0 is built against a
   patched version of Go 1.5.3 containing two specific bug fixes affecting TLS
   certificate handling. These fixes are in the Go 1.6 tree and were
   cherry-picked on top of stock Go 1.5.3. If you want to examine the way in
   which the releases were built, please look at our [cross-compilation
   Dockerfile](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault/blob/v0.5.0/scripts/cross/Dockerfile-patched-1.5.3).

## 0.4.1 (January 13, 2016)

SECURITY:

  * Build against Go 1.5.3 to mitigate a security vulnerability introduced in
    Go 1.5. For more information, please see
    https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/golang-dev/MEATuOi_ei4

This is a security-only release; other than the version number and building
against Go 1.5.3, there are no changes from 0.4.0.

## 0.4.0 (December 10, 2015)

DEPRECATIONS/CHANGES:

 * Policy Name Casing: Policy names are now normalized to lower-case on write,
   helping prevent accidental case mismatches. For backwards compatibility,
   policy names are not currently normalized when reading or deleting. [GH-676]
 * Default etcd port number: the default connection string for the `etcd`
   physical store uses port 2379 instead of port 4001, which is the port used
   by the supported version 2.x of etcd. [GH-753]
 * As noted below in the FEATURES section, if your Vault installation contains
   a policy called `default`, new tokens created will inherit this policy
   automatically.
 * In the PKI backend there have been a few minor breaking changes:
   * The token display name is no longer a valid option for providing a base
   domain for issuance. Since this name is prepended with the name of the
   authentication backend that issued it, it provided a faulty use-case at best
   and a confusing experience at worst. We hope to figure out a better
   per-token value in a future release.
   * The `allowed_base_domain` parameter has been changed to `allowed_domains`,
   which accepts a comma-separated list of domains. This allows issuing
   certificates with DNS subjects across multiple domains. If you had a
   configured `allowed_base_domain` parameter, it will be migrated
   automatically when the role is read (either via a normal read, or via
   issuing a certificate).

FEATURES:

 * **Significantly Enhanced PKI Backend**: The `pki` backend can now generate
   and sign root CA certificates and intermediate CA CSRs. It can also now sign
   submitted client CSRs, as well as a significant number of other
   enhancements. See the updated documentation for the full API. [GH-666]
 * **CRL Checking for Certificate Authentication**: The `cert` backend now
   supports pushing CRLs into the mount and using the contained serial numbers
   for revocation checking. See the documentation for the `cert` backend for
   more info. [GH-330]
 * **Default Policy**: Vault now ensures that a policy named `default` is added
   to every token. This policy cannot be deleted, but it can be modified
   (including to an empty policy). There are three endpoints allowed in the
   default `default` policy, related to token self-management: `lookup-self`,
   which allows a token to retrieve its own information, and `revoke-self` and
   `renew-self`, which are self-explanatory. If your existing Vault
   installation contains a policy called `default`, it will not be overridden,
   but it will be added to each new token created. You can override this
   behavior when using manual token creation (i.e. not via an authentication
   backend) by setting the "no_default_policy" flag to true. [GH-732]

IMPROVEMENTS:

 * api: API client now uses a 60 second timeout instead of indefinite [GH-681]
 * api: Implement LookupSelf, RenewSelf, and RevokeSelf functions for auth
   tokens [GH-739]
 * api: Standardize environment variable reading logic inside the API; the CLI
   now uses this but can still override via command-line parameters [GH-618]
 * audit: HMAC-SHA256'd client tokens are now stored with each request entry.
   Previously they were only displayed at creation time; this allows much
   better traceability of client actions. [GH-713]
 * audit: There is now a `sys/audit-hash` endpoint that can be used to generate
   an HMAC-SHA256'd value from provided data using the given audit backend's
   salt [GH-784]
 * core: The physical storage read cache can now be disabled via
   "disable_cache" [GH-674]
 * core: The unsealing process can now be reset midway through (this feature
   was documented before, but not enabled) [GH-695]
 * core: Tokens can now renew themselves [GH-455]
 * core: Base64-encoded PGP keys can be used with the CLI for `init` and
   `rekey` operations [GH-653]
 * core: Print version on startup [GH-765]
 * core: Access to `sys/policy` and `sys/mounts` now uses the normal ACL system
   instead of requiring a root token [GH-769]
 * credential/token: Display whether or not a token is an orphan in the output
   of a lookup call [GH-766]
 * logical: Allow `.` in path-based variables in many more locations [GH-244]
 * logical: Responses now contain a "warnings" key containing a list of
   warnings returned from the server. These are conditions that did not require
   failing an operation, but of which the client should be aware. [GH-676]
 * physical/(consul,etcd): Consul and etcd now use a connection pool to limit
   the number of outstanding operations, improving behavior when a lot of
   operations must happen at once [GH-677] [GH-780]
 * physical/consul: The `datacenter` parameter was removed; It could not be
   effective unless the Vault node (or the Consul node it was connecting to)
   was in the datacenter specified, in which case it wasn't needed [GH-816]
 * physical/etcd: Support TLS-encrypted connections and use a connection pool
   to limit the number of outstanding operations [GH-780]
 * physical/s3: The S3 endpoint can now be configured, allowing using
   S3-API-compatible storage solutions [GH-750]
 * physical/s3: The S3 bucket can now be configured with the `AWS_S3_BUCKET`
   environment variable [GH-758]
 * secret/consul: Management tokens can now be created [GH-714]

BUG FIXES:

 * api: API client now checks for a 301 response for redirects. Vault doesn't
   generate these, but in certain conditions Go's internal HTTP handler can
   generate them, leading to client errors.
 * cli: `token-create` now supports the `ttl` parameter in addition to the
   deprecated `lease` parameter. [GH-688]
 * core: Return data from `generic` backends on the last use of a limited-use
   token [GH-615]
 * core: Fix upgrade path for leases created in `generic` prior to 0.3 [GH-673]
 * core: Stale leader entries will now be reaped [GH-679]
 * core: Using `mount-tune` on the auth/token path did not take effect.
   [GH-688]
 * core: Fix a potential race condition when (un)sealing the vault with metrics
   enabled [GH-694]
 * core: Fix an error that could happen in some failure scenarios where Vault
   could fail to revert to a clean state [GH-733]
 * core: Ensure secondary indexes are removed when a lease is expired [GH-749]
 * core: Ensure rollback manager uses an up-to-date mounts table [GH-771]
 * everywhere: Don't use http.DefaultClient, as it shares state implicitly and
   is a source of hard-to-track-down bugs [GH-700]
 * credential/token: Allow creating orphan tokens via an API path [GH-748]
 * secret/generic: Validate given duration at write time, not just read time;
   if stored durations are not parseable, return a warning and the default
   duration rather than an error [GH-718]
 * secret/generic: Return 400 instead of 500 when `generic` backend is written
   to with no data fields [GH-825]
 * secret/postgresql: Revoke permissions before dropping a user or revocation
   may fail [GH-699]

MISC:

 * Various documentation fixes and improvements [GH-685] [GH-688] [GH-697]
   [GH-710] [GH-715] [GH-831]

## 0.3.1 (October 6, 2015)

SECURITY:

 * core: In certain failure scenarios, the full values of requests and
   responses would be logged [GH-665]

FEATURES:

 * **Settable Maximum Open Connections**: The `mysql` and `postgresql` backends
   now allow setting the number of maximum open connections to the database,
   which was previously capped to 2. [GH-661]
 * **Renewable Tokens for GitHub**: The `github` backend now supports
   specifying a TTL, enabling renewable tokens. [GH-664]

BUG FIXES:

 * dist: linux-amd64 distribution was dynamically linked [GH-656]
 * credential/github: Fix acceptance tests [GH-651]

MISC:

 * Various minor documentation fixes and improvements [GH-649] [GH-650]
   [GH-654] [GH-663]

## 0.3.0 (September 28, 2015)

DEPRECATIONS/CHANGES:

Note: deprecations and breaking changes in upcoming releases are announced
ahead of time on the "vault-tool" mailing list.

 * **Cookie Authentication Removed**: As of 0.3 the only way to authenticate is
   via the X-Vault-Token header. Cookie authentication was hard to properly
   test, could result in browsers/tools/applications saving tokens in plaintext
   on disk, and other issues. [GH-564]
 * **Terminology/Field Names**: Vault is transitioning from overloading the
   term "lease" to mean both "a set of metadata" and "the amount of time the
   metadata is valid". The latter is now being referred to as TTL (or
   "lease_duration" for backwards-compatibility); some parts of Vault have
   already switched to using "ttl" and others will follow in upcoming releases.
   In particular, the "token", "generic", and "pki" backends accept both "ttl"
   and "lease" but in 0.4 only "ttl" will be accepted. [GH-528]
 * **Downgrade Not Supported**: Due to enhancements in the storage subsystem,
   values written by Vault 0.3+ will not be able to be read by prior versions
   of Vault. There are no expected upgrade issues, however, as with all
   critical infrastructure it is recommended to back up Vault's physical
   storage before upgrading.

FEATURES:

 * **SSH Backend**: Vault can now be used to delegate SSH access to machines,
   via a (recommended) One-Time Password approach or by issuing dynamic keys.
   [GH-385]
 * **Cubbyhole Backend**: This backend works similarly to the "generic" backend
   but provides a per-token workspace. This enables some additional
   authentication workflows (especially for containers) and can be useful to
   applications to e.g. store local credentials while being restarted or
   upgraded, rather than persisting to disk. [GH-612]
 * **Transit Backend Improvements**: The transit backend now allows key
   rotation and datakey generation. For rotation, data encrypted with previous
   versions of the keys can still be decrypted, down to a (configurable)
   minimum previous version; there is a rewrap function for manual upgrades of
   ciphertext to newer versions. Additionally, the backend now allows
   generating and returning high-entropy keys of a configurable bitsize
   suitable for AES and other functions; this is returned wrapped by a named
   key, or optionally both wrapped and plaintext for immediate use. [GH-626]
 * **Global and Per-Mount Default/Max TTL Support**: You can now set the
   default and maximum Time To Live for leases both globally and per-mount.
   Per-mount settings override global settings. Not all backends honor these
   settings yet, but the maximum is a hard limit enforced outside the backend.
   See the documentation for "/sys/mounts/" for details on configuring
   per-mount TTLs.  [GH-469]
 * **PGP Encryption for Unseal Keys**: When initializing or rotating Vault's
   master key, PGP/GPG public keys can now be provided. The output keys will be
   encrypted with the given keys, in order. [GH-570]
 * **Duo Multifactor Authentication Support**: Backends that support MFA can
   now use Duo as the mechanism. [GH-464]
 * **Performance Improvements**: Users of the "generic" backend will see a
   significant performance improvement as the backend no longer creates leases,
   although it does return TTLs (global/mount default, or set per-item) as
   before.  [GH-631]
 * **Codebase Audit**: Vault's codebase was audited by iSEC. (The terms of the
   audit contract do not allow us to make the results public.) [GH-220]

IMPROVEMENTS:

 * audit: Log entries now contain a time field [GH-495]
 * audit: Obfuscated audit entries now use hmac-sha256 instead of sha1 [GH-627]
 * backends: Add ability for a cleanup function to be called on backend unmount
   [GH-608]
 * config: Allow specifying minimum acceptable TLS version [GH-447]
 * core: If trying to mount in a location that is already mounted, be more
   helpful about the error [GH-510]
 * core: Be more explicit on failure if the issue is invalid JSON [GH-553]
 * core: Tokens can now revoke themselves [GH-620]
 * credential/app-id: Give a more specific error when sending a duplicate POST
   to sys/auth/app-id [GH-392]
 * credential/github: Support custom API endpoints (e.g. for Github Enterprise)
   [GH-572]
 * credential/ldap: Add per-user policies and option to login with
   userPrincipalName [GH-420]
 * credential/token: Allow root tokens to specify the ID of a token being
   created from CLI [GH-502]
 * credential/userpass: Enable renewals for login tokens [GH-623]
 * scripts: Use /usr/bin/env to find Bash instead of hardcoding [GH-446]
 * scripts: Use godep for build scripts to use same environment as tests
   [GH-404]
 * secret/mysql: Allow reading configuration data [GH-529]
 * secret/pki: Split "allow_any_name" logic to that and "enforce_hostnames", to
   allow for non-hostname values (e.g. for client certificates) [GH-555]
 * storage/consul: Allow specifying certificates used to talk to Consul
   [GH-384]
 * storage/mysql: Allow SSL encrypted connections [GH-439]
 * storage/s3: Allow using temporary security credentials [GH-433]
 * telemetry: Put telemetry object in configuration to allow more flexibility
   [GH-419]
 * testing: Disable mlock for testing of logical backends so as not to require
   root [GH-479]

BUG FIXES:

 * audit/file: Do not enable auditing if file permissions are invalid [GH-550]
 * backends: Allow hyphens in endpoint patterns (fixes AWS and others) [GH-559]
 * cli: Fixed missing setup of client TLS certificates if no custom CA was
   provided
 * cli/read: Do not include a carriage return when using raw field output
   [GH-624]
 * core: Bad input data could lead to a panic for that session, rather than
   returning an error [GH-503]
 * core: Allow SHA2-384/SHA2-512 hashed certificates [GH-448]
 * core: Do not return a Secret if there are no uses left on a token (since it
   will be unable to be used) [GH-615]
 * core: Code paths that called lookup-self would decrement num_uses and
   potentially immediately revoke a token [GH-552]
 * core: Some /sys/ paths would not properly redirect from a standby to the
   leader [GH-499] [GH-551]
 * credential/aws: Translate spaces in a token's display name to avoid making
   IAM unhappy [GH-567]
 * credential/github: Integration failed if more than ten organizations or
   teams [GH-489]
 * credential/token: Tokens with sudo access to "auth/token/create" can now use
   root-only options [GH-629]
 * secret/cassandra: Work around backwards-incompatible change made in
   Cassandra 2.2 preventing Vault from properly setting/revoking leases
   [GH-549]
 * secret/mysql: Use varbinary instead of varchar to avoid InnoDB/UTF-8 issues
   [GH-522]
 * secret/postgres: Explicitly set timezone in connections [GH-597]
 * storage/etcd: Renew semaphore periodically to prevent leadership flapping
   [GH-606]
 * storage/zk: Fix collisions in storage that could lead to data unavailability
   [GH-411]

MISC:

 * Various documentation fixes and improvements [GH-412] [GH-474] [GH-476]
   [GH-482] [GH-483] [GH-486] [GH-508] [GH-568] [GH-574] [GH-586] [GH-590]
   [GH-591] [GH-592] [GH-595] [GH-613] [GH-637]
 * Less "armon" in stack traces [GH-453]
 * Sourcegraph integration [GH-456]

## 0.2.0 (July 13, 2015)

FEATURES:

 * **Key Rotation Support**: The `rotate` command can be used to rotate the
   master encryption key used to write data to the storage (physical) backend.
   [GH-277]
 * **Rekey Support**: Rekey can be used to rotate the master key and change the
   configuration of the unseal keys (number of shares, threshold required).
   [GH-277]
 * **New secret backend: `pki`**: Enable Vault to be a certificate authority
   and generate signed TLS certificates. [GH-310]
 * **New secret backend: `cassandra`**: Generate dynamic credentials for
   Cassandra [GH-363]
 * **New storage backend: `etcd`**: store physical data in etcd [GH-259]
   [GH-297]
 * **New storage backend: `s3`**: store physical data in S3. Does not support
   HA. [GH-242]
 * **New storage backend: `MySQL`**: store physical data in MySQL. Does not
   support HA. [GH-324]
 * `transit` secret backend supports derived keys for per-transaction unique
   keys [GH-399]

IMPROVEMENTS:

 * cli/auth: Enable `cert` method [GH-380]
 * cli/auth: read input from stdin [GH-250]
 * cli/read: Ability to read a single field from a secret [GH-257]
 * cli/write: Adding a force flag when no input required
 * core: allow time duration format in place of seconds for some inputs
 * core: audit log provides more useful information [GH-360]
 * core: graceful shutdown for faster HA failover
 * core: **change policy format** to use explicit globbing [GH-400] Any
   existing policy in Vault is automatically upgraded to avoid issues.  All
   policy files must be updated for future writes. Adding the explicit glob
   character `*` to the path specification is all that is required.
 * core: policy merging to give deny highest precedence [GH-400]
 * credential/app-id: Protect against timing attack on app-id
 * credential/cert: Record the common name in the metadata [GH-342]
 * credential/ldap: Allow TLS verification to be disabled [GH-372]
 * credential/ldap: More flexible names allowed [GH-245] [GH-379] [GH-367]
 * credential/userpass: Protect against timing attack on password
 * credential/userpass: Use bcrypt for password matching
 * http: response codes improved to reflect error [GH-366]
 * http: the `sys/health` endpoint supports `?standbyok` to return 200 on
   standby [GH-389]
 * secret/app-id: Support deleting AppID and UserIDs [GH-200]
 * secret/consul: Fine grained lease control [GH-261]
 * secret/transit: Decouple raw key from key management endpoint [GH-355]
 * secret/transit: Upsert named key when encrypt is used [GH-355]
 * storage/zk: Support for HA configuration [GH-252]
 * storage/zk: Changing node representation. **Backwards incompatible**.
   [GH-416]

BUG FIXES:

 * audit/file: file removing TLS connection state
 * audit/syslog: fix removing TLS connection state
 * command/*: commands accepting `k=v` allow blank values
 * core: Allow building on FreeBSD [GH-365]
 * core: Fixed various panics when audit logging enabled
 * core: Lease renewal does not create redundant lease
 * core: fixed leases with negative duration [GH-354]
 * core: token renewal does not create child token
 * core: fixing panic when lease increment is null [GH-408]
 * credential/app-id: Salt the paths in storage backend to avoid information
   leak
 * credential/cert: Fixing client certificate not being requested
 * credential/cert: Fixing panic when no certificate match found [GH-361]
 * http: Accept PUT as POST for sys/auth
 * http: Accept PUT as POST for sys/mounts [GH-349]
 * http: Return 503 when sealed [GH-225]
 * secret/postgres: Username length is capped to exceeding limit
 * server: Do not panic if backend not configured [GH-222]
 * server: Explicitly check value of tls_diable [GH-201]
 * storage/zk: Fixed issues with version conflicts [GH-190]

MISC:

 * cli/path-help: renamed from `help` to avoid confusion

## 0.1.2 (May 11, 2015)

FEATURES:

  * **New physical backend: `zookeeper`**: store physical data in Zookeeper.
    HA not supported yet.
  * **New credential backend: `ldap`**: authenticate using LDAP credentials.

IMPROVEMENTS:

  * core: Auth backends can store internal data about auth creds
  * audit: display name for auth is shown in logs [GH-176]
  * command/*: `-insecure` has been renamed to `-tls-skip-verify` [GH-130]
  * command/*: `VAULT_TOKEN` overrides local stored auth [GH-162]
  * command/server: environment variables are copy-pastable
  * credential/app-id: hash of app and user ID are in metadata [GH-176]
  * http: HTTP API accepts `X-Vault-Token` as auth header [GH-124]
  * logical/*: Generate help output even if no synopsis specified

BUG FIXES:

  * core: login endpoints should never return secrets
  * core: Internal data should never be returned from core endpoints
  * core: defer barrier initialization to as late as possible to avoid error
    cases during init that corrupt data (no data loss)
  * core: guard against invalid init config earlier
  * audit/file: create file if it doesn't exist [GH-148]
  * command/*: ignore directories when traversing CA paths [GH-181]
  * credential/*: all policy mapping keys are case insensitive [GH-163]
  * physical/consul: Fixing path for locking so HA works in every case

## 0.1.1 (May 2, 2015)

SECURITY CHANGES:

  * physical/file: create the storge with 0600 permissions [GH-102]
  * token/disk: write the token to disk with 0600 perms

IMPROVEMENTS:

  * core: Very verbose error if mlock fails [GH-59]
  * command/*: On error with TLS oversized record, show more human-friendly
    error message. [GH-123]
  * command/read: `lease_renewable` is now outputted along with the secret to
    show whether it is renewable or not
  * command/server: Add configuration option to disable mlock
  * command/server: Disable mlock for dev mode so it works on more systems

BUG FIXES:

  * core: if token helper isn't absolute, prepend with path to Vault
    executable, not "vault" (which requires PATH) [GH-60]
  * core: Any "mapping" routes allow hyphens in keys [GH-119]
  * core: Validate `advertise_addr` is a valid URL with scheme [GH-106]
  * command/auth: Using an invalid token won't crash [GH-75]
  * credential/app-id: app and user IDs can have hyphens in keys [GH-119]
  * helper/password: import proper DLL for Windows to ask password [GH-83]

## 0.1.0 (April 28, 2015)

  * Initial release
